  He came to them in the heart of winter, asking for his Cobweb Bride.
He arrived everywhere, all at once. In one singular moment, he was
seen, heard, felt, remembered. Some inhaled his decaying scent. Others
bitterly tasted him.
And everyone recognized Death in one way or another, just before
the world was suspended.
But Death’s human story began in Lethe, one of the three kingdoms of the
Imperial Realm.
It was evening, and the city of Letheburg reposed in amber lantern
lights and thickening blue shadows. At some point there had been a
silence, a break in the howling of the wind, as the snow started to fall.
The silence preceded him. It lasted for a few moments, then he heard the sound of footsteps approaching. He turned to see a young woman, clad in a white  cloak, standing in front of him, her eyes wide and her hands clasped behind
 her back. Her hair was pulled back into a ponytail and she was wearing a black dress with a red ribbon tied around her neck. She wore a pair of white gloves, which she held in her right hand and held out to him with her left. "I
'm sorry," she said, "but I don't know what to do."
"What do you mean?"
She looked up at him and smiled. Then she looked back down at her dress. The ribbon was gone, but the dress was still there, folded up and tucked into the back of her head. There was no doubt that it had belonged to her mother, w
ho had passed away a short time before. But it was also clear that she had no idea where it came from, or how to get it back, because she didn't seem to be able to remember anything about it at all, save for the fact that her fat
her had told her to wear it whenever she went out in public, even though she hadn't worn it in years. And she wasn't even sure why she wore it, since she couldn't remember ever having worn anything else, not even a dress, for tha
t matter. All she could remember was that when she got home from school, she would put it on and go to sleep, only to wake up the next morning to find it gone. That was all she knew, really, except for one thing: she always wore
the same dress every day, no matter what time of day or day of week she woke up. When she came home at night, it would always be on her bedside table, with the ribbon still on it. If she wanted to go out for dinner or to a movie
or something, there was always a ribbon on the nightstand next to the door, so she wouldn't have to worry about missing out on anything important, like going to school or getting a job or anything like that. Even if she did need
to take a shower or put on makeup or change her hair or shave her legs or whatever, that was something that happened to everyone else every single day. So why did she wear that dress?
Her mother had always said that the only thing that mattered in life was what you wore, whether you liked it or not. What mattered most was how you looked, what kind of clothes you were wearing, how much money you had and how wel
l you did in school and everything else that went along with being a good person and doing the right thing. For her, wearing that white dress meant nothing more than wearing the clothes that were supposed to make her look good, r
egardless of whether they made her feel good or bad or whether she liked them or disliked them. No matter how good she felt about herself or what she thought was right or wrong about her or her family or the world or anyone else
in it‒the clothes were there to help her achieve that goal. They weren't there for any other reason, other than that they were her way of making sure that no one else felt bad about themselves or about the way they looked or felt
 or talked or acted or did anything that would make them feel like they had to hide who they really were from the people around them and from each other or from their families or their friends or even from themselves. This was th
e very definition of what it meant to have a sense of self, to feel that one's own worth and worthiness was determined by what others thought of them, by how they acted and talked and looked and felt and thought. To have that fee
ling of worthlessness and self-doubt, of not knowing what one was worth or who one really was, was to live in constant fear of being judged or rejected or judged and rejected and judged again and again, until one could no longer
bear it any longer and was forced to give up on life altogether and turn to something else entirely, something far more important than what was going on in this world. As a result, many people, especially those who were poor and
