 He came to them in the heart of winter, asking for his Cobweb Bride.
He arrived everywhere, all at once. In one singular moment, he was
seen, heard, felt, remembered. Some inhaled his decaying scent. Others
bitterly tasted him.
And everyone recognized Death in one way or another, just before
the world was suspended.
But Death’s human story began in Lethe, one of the three kingdoms of the
Imperial Realm.
It was evening, and the city of Letheburg reposed in amber lantern
lights and thickening blue shadows. At some point there had been a
silence, a break in the howling of the wind, as the snow started to fall.
The silence preceded him. It lasted for a few moments, then he heard the sound of footsteps approaching. He turned to see a young woman, clad in a white  cloak, standing in front of him, her eyes wide and her hands clasped behind
 her back. Her hair was pulled back into a ponytail and she was wearing a black dress with a red ribbon tied around her neck. She held a silver dagger in her right hand, which she held aloft with her left hand. The dagger was pointed at Death's chest, but he did not seem to be paying attention to it. His eyes were fixed on the woman's face, his lips pursed in an impassive smile. 
"What are you doing here?" he asked. "I've been waiting for you all day."
She looked up at him with wide eyes and said, "What do you mean, 'all day'?"
His eyes widened and he turned away from her and walked towards the door of his apartment. Then he stopped and turned back to face her again. This time his eyes met hers. They stared into each other's eyes for several seconds bef
ore he spoke again: "Do you know who I am? I'm Death. And I've come to ask you to marry me. I want to live with you forever. But I can't do that if you don't accept me as your husband. You have to do what I say, or I'll kill you.
" He paused and looked at her with an expression that seemed to tell her that she had made a terrible mistake and that he would kill her if she refused to accept him as her husband, even if it meant killing him himself.  
Death's smile grew wider as he continued to stare into the eyes of her, until he reached out and grabbed her by the hair and pulled her into his arms, pulling her close to him and kissing her passionately. As he began to pull her
 closer, she let out a cry of pain as she felt his fingers caress her scalp and his tongue slide into her mouth, tasting her blood and sucking on her earlobe. When he finally pulled away and let her fall back onto the bed, Death
looked down and saw that her hair had fallen over her shoulders, covering her face and making her look even more like a woman than she already was.
 "I'm sorry," she whispered, tears streaming down her cheeks and falling onto her chest. Death smiled and leaned in to kiss her once more, this time more passionately than he had ever kissed her before. After a moment of silence,
 the two of them kissed again and again until they were both sobbing uncontrollably in each others' arms. Finally, they broke the kiss and stood up to go to their respective rooms.
