Once Upon a Time there was a knight in castle.His name was Geralt. Geralt aim was to capture a dragon.Geralt went on an adventure to find and capture dragon.When he found the dragon, he killed it.He then went back to his castle a
nd killed all the other knights.Then he went to the king and asked him for help.The king told him to kill all of the dragons in the kingdom.So he did.But he didn't kill them all. He only killed one.And that was the last dragon he
 ever killed.That's why he was called "The Last Dragon".He was killed by his own father, the King of Weselton.After that, there were no more dragons.There was only one dragon left, and that dragon was named "Ciri".She was born fr
om the ashes of her father's death.She grew up to be a beautiful young woman.Her father died when she was still a baby, so she had no one to care for her. She was raised by her mother, who was also a princess.In the end, she deci
ded to leave her home and go on a journey with her friend, a young man named Ciri.They traveled all over the world, meeting many different people.One day, they came to a village, where they met an old man who told them that he ha
d a secret.It was that secret that would change the lives of everyone in that village forever.This man was known as the "Dragon King".The Dragon King wanted to become the Dragon Lord, but he couldn't do it without the help of his
 daughter, "the Dragon Queen".So the two of them set out on their journey, hoping that one day they would meet each other again.However, when they arrived at their destination, it turned out that they had already met before. They
 had met at the very beginning of their adventure, just a few days before they left the village.At that time, their paths crossed again, this time in a different part of town.As they were walking down the street, one of those old
 men who had been telling them about his secret came up behind them and said: "You two are the same person, aren't you?"The two young men looked at eachother in surprise, then they looked back at him and smiled. "Yes, we are," th
ey said in unison. Then they turned around and started walking away from him. The two men walked on for a while, until they finally stopped and turned to look at one another. Their eyes met and they both smiled, as if to say "Tha
nk you".Then they walked off together into the night, leaving behind a trail of blood and broken bones in their wake.For the next few years, all they could do was wait for their father to come back and tell them the truth about w
hat had happened to them.Eventually, his return came and he told the story of how he and his wife had lost their daughter to an evil sorceress. When they returned to their village to tell their story, everyone was shocked to see
that the girl had turned into a giant dragon and was about to devour the entire village and everyone who lived in it, including their own children. So they decided that it was time for them to move on and live their lives as norm
al people, without having to worry about anything like that ever happening again."I don't want to live like this any more. I want my daughter back.I want her to grow up and become a normal girl, like everyone else in this village
," said the woman who gave birth to her daughter. And then she turned and walked away, never to return. For the rest of that night and the following days, nobody knew who that woman was or where she came from.All they knew for su
re, however, is that she never came back, even though she said she did, because she knew she would never be able to do so.Years later, after the events of The Witcher 3: Wild Hunt, her body was found by a group of people who were
 searching for clues as to who she might have been. It was later discovered that this was not the first time that someone had found a body that had not been found for over a year. In fact, that body had actually been there for ye
ars before it had even been discovered by the group who found it."It's been a long time since I last saw her," the man said to himself as he looked over his shoulder at his dead body, which was lying on the ground in front of him
."But I'm sure she'll be back soon," he added.
