
Chapter 1
He came to them in the heart of winter, asking for his Cobweb Bride.
He arrived everywhere, all at once. In one singular moment, he was 
seen, heard, felt, remembered. Some inhaled his decaying scent. Others 
bitterly tasted him.
And everyone recognized Death in one way or another, just before 
the world was suspended.
But Death’s human story began in Lethe, one of the three kingdoms of the 
Imperial Realm.
It was evening, and the city of Letheburg reposed in amber lantern 
lights and thickening blue shadows. At some point there had been a 
silence, a break in the howling of the wind, as the snow started to fall.
The silence preceded him.
Flakes of white glimmered through the frost-blurred glass of the 
myriad windows of the Winter Palace of Lethe. In moments the 
snowflakes turned into armies. They piled and compounded, stretched and 
distended into geometric symmetry. Folding into garlands of impossible 
gauze veils, they appeared at last to be the faint and vaporous spinnings of 
a sky-sized ice spider casting its web upon the world.
While the pallor and the darkness grew outside, Death was arriving 
within—inside a bedchamber permeated with illness, the boudoir of the 
old Queen.
In silence he formed out of the cobwebs of the gilded crown molding 
near the ceiling, the dust motes of desolation, and the fallen shadows in 
the corner. All these tiny bits and pieces of the mortal world rushed 
together to shape him.
He began as grey smoke. Then, darkness deeper than soot. His form 
solidified into a man, gaunt and tall, clad in black velvet like a grim 
Spaniard. He wore no cape, but somehow his face was hooded, as though 
a veil rippled between him and anyone who might look.
The first to notice him was the woman sitting in a chair at the foot of 
the great bed, farthest away from the fireplace—a regal middle-aged 
woman in a heavy brocade dress of deep green. She saw him and gasped, 
forgetting her stoic demeanor.
At the woman’s reaction, the distinguished man with silver at his 
temples, standing next to her—leaning as he had been, for hours it 
seemed, over the bed and its decrepit occupant—turned to look. And he 
was taken with paralysis, able only to stare.
Finally, the fading old creature who lay in the bed—ethereal as a 
desiccated fairy, sunken in layers of soft winter mahogany fleece and 
cream silk—turned her clouded gaze in the direction of the presence.
“Who are you?” the seated woman in the green brocade asked at the 
same time as the man leaning over the bed exclaimed, “Guards!”
But the old woman lying in bed merely rattled the air in her throat 
and lifted a gnarled trembling finger, pointing.
There was profound relief in that gesture, a final offering of the self.
But the one who stood before her—before them all—did not respond. 
Moments gathered around him like the fluttering yet unfailing pulse-beat 
in the old woman’s throat.
And then, at long last, he spoke.
“No.”
With a clanging of metal, guards came running into the chamber. But 
they too seemed to lose urgency, and lined up at the doors watching with 
transfixed faces.
“No,” he repeated, in a voice as distant as the falling snow outside the 
window. “I may not have you. . . . Instead, I must have my Cobweb 
Bride.”
“Who are you?” the woman in green tried again. Underneath her 
formally coiffed hair, the color of dark tea, bright drops of faceted yellow 
topaz sparkled in her earlobes, reflecting the flames. Tiny pearls sat in the 
intricacy of her collar lace. But her voice was dull, without inflection, for 
she knew very well who it was.
“Death stands before you,” he replied with a softness of the final 
breath.
“Have you come to take from us Her Majesty, my Mother and our 
Queen?” whispered the man who had summoned the guards. He wore 
expensive velvet garments of deep mourning and had a stern face framed 
by dark hair with its beginnings of grizzle, undisguised by a powdered 
wig. There was no need for ceremonial formalities in this bedchamber—at 
least not today.
“No, Prince,” Death replied. “I have come for my Cobweb Bride and 
none other. No one else will I take unto me until I have her at my side.”
“What does that mean?” said Roland Osenni—he who was indeed a 
Prince of Lethe, and who would have been King in the next three breaths 
had they been the old Queen’s last.
“A Cobweb Bride?” echoed Lucia Osenni, the woman in the chair, 
who was the Prince’s wife and consort, and would have been the new 
Queen. “Who is this Cobweb Bride, and where might she be found, to be 
delivered unto you?”
Meanwhile, the old Queen, Andrelise Osenni of Lethe, let her hand 
drop on the coverlet. Skeletal fingers twitching, she lay gurgling, 
drowning in her own spittle, the death rattle in her throat an unrelenting 
rhythmic sound.
“Oh God, have mercy!” Princess Lucia stood up in reflex at the awful 
new sound, and came forward to stare at the dying Queen, wringing her 
own hands clad with heavy gold rings. She clenched her fingers so hard 
that the metal and jewels cut into her flesh. Pain shot through her, clean 
and sharp. Pain, cleansing the mind.
But there was to be no clarity and no death that night.
“Bring to me my Cobweb Bride. Bring her to the gates of Death’s 
Keep that stands in the Northern Forest. Only then will I grant relief and 
resume taking your kind unto me. Until then, none shall die.”
And as the voice faded into echoes of cold stone, so did the form of 
shadows and black soot, until only mortals were left in the room.
Did they imagine it? Had it been a flicker of the mind, a waking 
dream?
The crackling flame in the fireplace cast a golden-red glow upon 
them all.
And the old Queen’s death rattle continued.
Death’s second stop was simultaneous, yet many leagues away, to the 
north.
Evening twilight encroached with blue and indigo upon the whiteness 
of the frozen Lake Merlait. It was a scene of slowing battle between the 
forces of Duke Ian Chidair, known as Hoarfrost, and the armies of his 
neighbor, the Duke Vitalio Goraque. Neither side as yet had the upper 
hand.
Winter wind howled in fury while heavy cavalrymen and horses 
struggled   in   a   slow   melee,   immense   metal-clad   knights   bringing 
broadswords and maces down upon each other, to cleave and bludgeon. 
Joined with the screaming wind in a discord were the clangor of iron and 
shouts and groans of agony as the wounded and the slain soldiers piled 
upon the whiteness. Footmen slipped and moved between the feet of the 
great warhorses, and long pikes pierced chain mail and mail plate, butting 
up against the ice.
There were places where the ice had cracked. Here, men and beasts 
had fallen through into the gaping blackness, the sludge water thick and 
slow underneath the ice. The dead and the living had intermingled, and 
common blood stained the top layer of the ice with dark red; pale rose in 
places, deep as burgundy in others.
Then, all of a sudden, the wind died.
Except for the ringing metal and human cries, there had come silence.
With it came horror.
One beheaded soldier continued to move. His severed head together 
with its helmet, eyes still blinking, mouth distended into a cry, rolled into 
the gaping hole in the ice, sinking into the breach. But the headless torso, 
now blind and staggering, continued to wield the sword, and to swing it 
wildly.
Behind him, another soldier, wearing red and gold, Duke Vitalio 
Goraque’s colors, was pierced through the heart with a long pike. Instead 
of collapsing, he froze in place for several long shuddering moments. 
Then, as the one who struck him down stared in disbelief, the soldier took 
hold of the shaft and pulled it out of his own chest, shouting in agony. And 
he continued to fight, while blood darker than his tunic poured out of his 
wound in a spurting fountain.
A few feet away, a knight in an over-tunic surcoat of palest frost-blue
—its color blurring into the surrounding ice in the intensifying twilight—
decorated with the ornate crest of Duke Hoarfrost, fell from his warhorse 
from the impact of a great broadsword blow. He fell upon the ice and 
through it, for the burden of his plate armor weighted him down as though 
he were an anvil.
The knight sank, screaming, while the sludge blackwater closed over 
his head, seeping into his under-tunic and all the crevices with a shock of 
excruciating cold. And he continued screaming silently with all the force 
of his lungs that collapsed and then filled with the ice water while he was 
being consumed by universal agony of cold fire and impossible stifling 
pressure. All his muscles spasmed, and yet his heart did not shut down 
instantly from the shock.
His heart went on beating, slow and stately like an ice drum, then 
slowing down gradually, as though unwinding mechanical gears. While 
his blood—now as cold as the water in the lake—crawled through him 
sluggishly. And still the knight descended, flailing his limbs in the 
absolute darkness and cold while his mind chanted a prayer to God for an 
end that would not come.
Eventually he hit the bottom of the lake, thick with mud. He lay 
there, unable to move from the weight of his armor and from the 
constricted and frozen muscles of his body; unable to breathe and 
suffocating without end, yet not losing consciousness. His face, now 
invisible to any other living being, was clenched in a rictus of horror, and 
prayers were replaced with madness.
Directly above him—no more than fifty feet through the freezing 
waters, upon the ice crust surrounding the breach through which he had 
fallen—the battle went on. But it had taken a turn of unreality.
Men on both sides continued to strike mortal blows, but their 
opponents faltered only briefly. Many of the slain picked themselves back 
up from the ice and continued fighting, even though they were soon 
drained of all blood. Others stood or lay howling in unrelieved pain from 
deadly wounds and mutilations, neither losing consciousness nor life.
“Sorcery! By God, this is dark witching sorcery! Fall back! Fall 
back!” Duke Vitalio Goraque cried, thrown into sudden mindless terror by 
the realization of what was happening around him. It did not matter that he 
was surrounded by a solid circle of his best knights and henchmen, while 
behind him rode the loyal pennant bearer, holding aloft the red-and-gold 
banner with the Goraque crest. It did not matter that they had advanced 
such a significant distance across the frozen lake, and were more than 
halfway to the western shore that marked the outer boundary of the lands 
held by his enemy, Hoarfrost.
None of it mattered. The red Duke attempted to fight his way back 
from the middle of the frozen lake to the eastern shore where his reserve 
detachments waited.
On the other end of the lake, a mere ten or twenty feet from the 
western shore, flew the pennant of the palest blue, now obscured by 
evening murk, with the crest of Chidair. Duke Hoarfrost himself, Ian 
Chidair, sat on his tall grey charger like a rock, while continuing to swing 
his broadsword at the enemy knights.
Next to him fought his son, Lord Beltain Chidair, protecting his 
father’s formidable back. He moved, deep in a berserker fury, demonic 
and terrifying. No matter how tired he had to be at this point, few dared to 
approach the young knight who had never been defeated in combat.
The few remaining Chidair knights at their side were dull with 
exhaustion. None had yet noticed the peculiar consequences of what 
should have been mortal strikes, attributing it to the enemy’s tenacity—
after all, Chidair had been pushed back into retreating to their own shores 
of the lake. And the cessation of the ice wind against their numb faces was 
merely perceived as a blessed minor relief.
But then they saw in the distance near the heart of the lake that Duke 
Goraque’s forces seemed to be regrouping and then retreating east.
It made no sense. Why was Goraque retreating? He had the upper 
hand!
Though evenly matched in general, the battle had been hardest upon 
Duke Hoarfrost’s army, especially in these last minutes. The only 
explanation for the uncalled-for retreat of Duke Goraque’s men was that 
they must have been deceived by something in the growing dusk. Or 
maybe they were unwilling to continue the battle at night.
“Accursed cowards!” Duke Hoarfrost exclaimed, panting hard. With 
a great backhanded blow he delivered a killing strike to the neck of the last 
Goraque knight within sword range before him—a strike that should have 
severed collarbone and ribs and cleared the immediate area of any 
remaining opponents.
The knight did not fall but slumped forward in the saddle to lie 
against the neck of his warhorse from the impact of the received blow. 
Blood spurted down the front of his already ruddy surcoat as his heart 
pumped the life-liquid out of the damaged body. Within moments he will 
have drawn his last breath.
Himself near collapse, breathing in shuddering gasps of exhaustion, 
Duke Hoarfrost turned his back to the defeated enemy and addressed the 
pennant bearer of his House.
“Laurent . . .” he spoke between breaths. “Raise the banner to its 
fullest. . . . We will now rally to strike them and drive them—”
He never finished. Because in that moment a long dagger was lodged 
and twisted with surprising force in his lower back near the kidneys, deep 
to the hilt, in that vulnerable spot right between the mail plates. And a 
moment later a broadsword point struck him higher, between the ribs, 
running in through the heart and out the front of his chest cavity. The point 
of the sword was stopped only by the hard inner surface of the chest plate.
Then the blade was withdrawn.
Searing agony.
An instant of vertigo, that should have been followed by instant 
oblivion.
But Duke Hoarfrost, Ian Chidair, mortally pierced twice, remained 
alive. And alive, he screamed in impossible pain.
He screamed, while blood came spurting out of him, from his back 
and his chest, from the hole near his kidneys, and past the clenched jaws 
and into his mouth so that he tasted his own serum and bile, choked on it, 
while his lungs were filling rapidly so that he was now drowning.
And yet, slowly Duke Hoarfrost turned around. Staggering in the 
saddle, he faced the slain knight who once again sat upright in his own 
saddle, and who held a broadsword covered with Hoarfrost’s blood. The 
dagger remained lodged in Chidair’s back.
“No!” Beltain, his son, cried. “No! Father! Oh, in the Name of God, 
no!”
Duke Hoarfrost gurgled, unable to breathe. And then, with a supreme 
effort he threw himself at the enemy knight.
The two of them went down from the impact. Neither one cared any 
longer that to be unseated meant they would likely be unable to rise up and 
mount again—that it meant sure death.
What difference would it make when they were dead already?
Or, undead.
For neither of them could possibly be alive.
The impact of two bodies collapsing against the ice resulted in a slow 
fissure, then a growing crack. Their warhorses stumbled, yet managed to 
regain footing and scrambled away to a safe distance, while all around, the 
Chidair knights backed away, leaving a perimeter around the collapsing 
ice.
Down the incline and into the churning sludge the two fallen men 
slipped, weighed down by the immense poundage of their armor, still 
grappling with each other as the thick waters closed overhead, bubbling.
Within moments there was only stillness. The ice pieces gently 
bobbed on top of the sludge.
“Holy Mother of God . . . have mercy upon your loyal servant Ian 
Chidair and receive him unto your bosom,” Beltain whispered, crossing 
himself. He removed his helmet in grief and in final honor of his fallen 
Lord father. In the dark, his eyes were without an end, places leading only 
into hell; his hair, like filaments of the night.
Some distance away there were various sounds of retreat. Goraque 
soldiers returned to their own side of the lake, while straggling figures of 
Hoarfrost’s men started to fall back to the place where the Duke himself 
had just sunk in the waters so near the shore.
In the darkness it was not clearly visible that some of these men 
should not have been walking upright. Indeed, many did not realize their 
own condition, feeling only numbness and winter closing in, and 
attributing it to the circumstances of battle. From the shores came the 
reserve troops, soldiers carrying torches to illuminate the scene of battle, 
for at last it was true night.
“Soldiers of Chidair! All of you now my men—good, brave men,” 
Beltain continued, his face illuminated with the angry red flickering of 
torches. “I promise to you, his death will not go unavenged. I now count 
on your loyalty to—”
But his words tapered off into silence. Because in that moment the ice 
at the shore of the lake began to shudder, and then was shattered violently 
from the inside . . . out.
It was broken by the blow of a metal-clad fist emerging from the lake 
itself.
The fist was followed by an arm, and then another. The two hands 
tore and pounded at the ice, until it cracked and shattered, and the hole 
widened, became the girth of a man’s body, then wider yet. At last a 
human shape burst forth, sputtering and gasping, then throwing up water 
mixed with blood upon the shore.
He stood up, the waters coming up to his waist. Then, bracing himself 
with his arms he crawled out and lay upon the surface at the edge of the 
hole, clad in mail and a soaked darkened surcoat that should have been 
faint blue, the color of frost.
He had lost his crested helmet underneath the ice of the lake. But the 
hair plastered to the skull with ice water was unmistakably that of the 
Duke Hoarfrost, Ian Chidair, Lord of the west lands of Chidair within the 
Kingdom of Lethe.
He lay twitching upon the ice, while lake water and the last vestiges 
of his own blood came pouring out of the fissures in his body. And then he 
slowly raised his head.
Illuminated by the torches of his own soldiers, a pale bloodless face 
of the man they knew and served looked at them impassively.
He was like a god of Winter, white with a bluish tint. The water was 
freezing into true ice upon the planes of his face, rimming his brows and 
hair with dead crystalline whiteness.
Duke Hoarfrost stood up, while many, including his own son, reined 
in their mounts to move away, and foot soldiers took an involuntary step 
back and unto the shore, away from the ice.
“Father?” Beltain Chidair whispered, his voice cracking. “Are you 
my father? Are you . . . dead?”
And the man before him parted his frozen lips, and then spewed forth 
more brackish water and the last taint of living blood. He then moved one 
awkward hand behind him to pull out the dagger from his back.
“My . . . son,” he croaked. “I . . . don’t know.”
Death’s third stop was intimate, and once again no time had elapsed.
In a poor house with a badly thatched roof, no attic and a drafty 
ceiling of old wooden rafters—one of the most decrepit dwellings in the 
village of Oarclaven, in the Dukedom of Goraque, which in turn lay within 
the Kingdom of Lethe—an old peasant woman lay dying.
She was Bethesia Ayren, possibly older than the elm tree growing in 
the back yard. She was a widow, the mother of two sons one of whom 
owned this house, and the grandmother of one grandson and three 
granddaughters. It was a rather small family, as peasant families went.
Bethesia had been beautiful in her day, with cream skin and bright 
auburn hair that was long and soft as goose down, and shimmered as 
apricot silk in sunlight. She wore it loose once or twice when a maiden, 
and it had caught the eye of a passing lordling’s handsome son. As a 
result, Bethesia was made to braid her hair tightly, cover her head with 
discreet cotton, and was married soon after to Johuan Ayren, a solid young 
man of a respectable village family.
Very quickly after that she gave birth to a handsome boy. Bethesia’s 
husband was a kind and fair man, and he took the boy and treated him as 
his own. Eventually a second son was born, and this one resembled the 
father in his plainness and kindness.
By the time Bethesia and Johuan grew old but not quite decrepit, the 
older son, handsome Guel, had prospered and married an apple orchard 
owner’s daughter who bore him a healthy son, and the three of them had 
gone to live in the large town Fioren, just south of Letheburg. It was the 
second son, Alann, who had remained with Bethesia and his father, to care 
for his aging parents. Johuan died shortly after, and there was no one but 
Bethesia and Alann to tend to the crumbling house and the small plot of 
land with the field and the vegetable garden.
Alann took a wife then, and she resembled his mother in many ways. 
Niobea was a beautiful woman from Fioren who had the mixed fortune to 
work as a lady’s fine seamstress. She married poor Alann Ayren because 
no one else would have her after she too had caught the roving eye of her 
lady’s son and could not avoid his even more roving hands.
In the lady’s household Niobea had been taught how to read in order 
to entertain the mistress at her sewing, and thus acquired a fine taste. 
Niobea gave long and elegant names to her peasant daughters as they were 
born almost one right after the other, with not a son in sight.
The eldest daughter, whose father may or may not have been Alann, 
was called Parabelle. She was fair like a field of flax, and delicate like 
imported porcelain in the fancy town shops. Her hair was rich and 
bountiful, a sea of dawning pallor with a hint of amber and gold—several 
shades lighter than her grandmother’s had been, but of the same glorious 
texture, falling like a cloak around her when unbound. Her body was slim 
and well proportioned, and as she approached womanhood she stood 
nearly as tall as her father. Even when she worked in the field at Alann’s 
side, the sun was kind to her. It ripened her apple-golden, and her skin did 
not lose its fresh elasticity, or its delicate sheen. Belle was beautiful 
indeed, and they came to call her thus. Additionally she was obedient, 
humble,   intelligent   and   soft-spoken—a   perfect   daughter   and 
granddaughter, loved dearly by all.
The second daughter came two springs and a half later, plain and 
dull, and was given the name Persephone. It was as though all beauty, all 
the life juices have been wrung out of Niobea in the birthing of Parabelle, 
so that none of it was left over to imbue Persephone with energy.
Percy was a sickly child, somewhat dull-witted and slow, likely to 
stop her work and stare at shadows, at nothings. She was darker, her hair 
of an indeterminate color somewhere between brown, black, and ash. Her 
skin and face were anemic pale—not frail in a lovely way, but unhealthy. 
She burned readily in the sun, unlike her older sister, and soon enough 
would be peeling and covered with red welts. Eventually they made her 
wear an additional cotton scarf in the field, to cover most of her face and 
her neck, not to mention shirts with extra-thick long sleeves.
Percy was also stocky, with a straight waist that would never be 
willowy, leaning to fat, and clumsy like a dog let loose in the house. She 
broke crockery every other day it seemed, so that her mother Niobea 
sometimes cried just looking at her, for she knew that to get her a husband 
might be an impossible task. Worst of all, Percy was a willful child, and 
would ignore tasks she had no heart for. “Good for nothing,” Niobea 
called her, “a clod, a stubborn idiot girl.” And Niobea prayed for a more 
graceful child next time.
Indeed, because nature always seeks a balance, beauty returned to the 
family. The third daughter came three summers later during the autumn 
harvest, and she was an angelic child who promised to be as beautiful as 
the eldest. Niobea spoke a prayer of thanks and named her Patriciana.
Patty was not as exquisitely beautiful as Belle, but she made up for it 
in vivacity and energy. A child with ruddy cheeks and curly chestnut 
locks, before she was old enough to work she ran around the house singing 
and wailing and laughing. And she tormented old Bethesia with stories 
and questions, until Belle would gently scold her while her mother would 
hide a smile and give her an apple and tell her to run and play outside.
Often, as little Patty came outside after the mild scolding, Percy 
would be working in the vegetable patch, and she would wave and beckon. 
And as soon as Patty settled down next to her ungainly dirt-covered older 
sister, Percy would resume pulling the carrots and pruning the spinach 
leaves, appearing so intent on her task. But eventually, without fail, Percy 
would launch on a strange tale, usually filled with frightful creatures and 
mysterious happenings, all of it told in an oddly compelling voice, and 
using root vegetables like puppets, for colorful props.
They grew together thus, until Belle was eighteen, Percy sixteen, and 
Patty an energetic thirteen year old.
It was then that their grandmother’s time drew to a close, and 
Bethesia lay dying.
Evenings came early in winter, and ailing Bethesia was laid out in a 
corner bed, as far away from the drafts as possible, and wrapped in several 
old woolen blankets. The fireplace had been lit early, a mixture of dry and 
sodden logs and twigs crackling and sputtering angrily with smoke, as the 
wind outside howled and gusts of it came tearing down the filthy chimney. 
The windows were shuttered tight but it was not enough to keep out the 
winter cold, so Belle—now a willowy maiden, beautiful despite the grey 
homespun dress and work-calloused fingers—went around the house and 
stuffed additional bunches of folded rags in all the crevices and along the 
windowsills.
“Why is it so dark, child?” suddenly came from the bed in the corner, 
as Bethesia spoke in a faint rasping voice. “And why is it so quiet?”
Belle stopped her task and came quickly to her grandmother’s side.
Lying against the lumpy pillow covered with faded cotton that was 
worn thin from endless washings, Bethesia’s wrinkled face had turned 
white-grey. Eyes the color of coals reposed deep in sockets of bone and 
skin, and her withered hands had been bent into gnarled claws by arthritis. 
Belle held them now, feeling the cold fingers. They were like branches of 
the old snow-covered elm outside.
“It is dark because a storm is rising,” Belle said gently in a melodic 
voice. “I’ve lined the shutters tight and lit the fireplace.”
“Gran, can you not see the fire?” a younger voice sounded, as Patty 
came forward from her place at the wooden table where she was mixing 
buckwheat flour batter and peeling stale turnips for their evening meal. 
Patty’s bright eyes and cheeks were warmed by the light of the flames, and 
her nose had a smear of dirt from the tubers she’d been cleaning.
Their mother, Niobea, a gaunt, middle-aged woman, sat in another 
chair in the corner, holding a long piece of homespun that she was quilting 
with precise deft movements of a seasoned seamstress. “Might as well 
light us a candle, Patty,” she said. “It is too dark.” 
Niobea’s greying hair was concealed by a simple woolen scarf, where 
it would once have been decorated with a lace bonnet. There was no more 
lace to be had, and the last of it, left from her younger days, yellowing and 
tattered, was stored in an old treasure trunk underneath their bed.
The front door opened with a blast of ice-cold, just as Patty went to 
rummage in the cupboard for another precious tallow candle that they used 
only for special occasions. A man’s tall broad-shouldered figure came 
inside, followed by a smaller figure. Both were carrying loads of kindling 
and both were dressed in tattered straw-stuffed coats, and had their heads 
wrapped in homespun scarves underneath his hat and her shawl.
Gusts of frozen wind and swirling flakes came after them, and the 
fireplace crackled loudly in protest as the wind from the chimney found a 
sudden new outlet.
“Argh! Brr!” Alann exclaimed, slapping his mittened hands together 
and stamping his burlap and cotton-wrapped feet to shake the snow off 
him. Then, turning to the figure behind him, he said: “Quickly, shut the 
door now, Percy!”
Niobea frowned. “Stop making a mess, Alann. Wipe your feet before 
you take another step. And you too, girl.”
Percy, swaddled in the only woolen shawl that the sisters shared 
between them when taking turns going outside, clumsily shifted the 
bundle of kindling from both hands to one. She then used her shoulder to 
slam the old wooden door behind them, lifted the bolt and drew it in place.
“Ah, that’s better!” Alann said as he put down his bundle on the 
beaten earth floor near the door and started to scrape the snow off his 
wrapped feet. “There’s an early blizzard gathering, you know, wife. Good 
thing I stocked up on the hay and the flour. Put the extra blanket on the 
horse too, just in case, in that drafty barn.”
“Good,” Niobea said. “We can’t afford to lose that horse.”
Percy meanwhile dumped her bundle of kindling on top of the rest. 
She untied the woolen shawl, and underneath it was another cotton one 
that she kept on, since the inside of the house was chilly despite the lit 
fireplace. She hung up her coat and shawl and the mittens on the rack in 
the corner, received her father’s hat and coat and hung them up, then 
crouched down on the floor and started to wipe her own feet and the snow-
sodden bottom of her burlap skirt.
“Why is it so dark?”
From her narrow bed in the corner, Bethesia spoke. Her voice was 
louder this time, tremulous and somehow frightening.
“What is it, mother?” Alann said. “What’s wrong?”
“So dark!” repeated the old woman, and then moaned.
“Oh, blessed saints . . . Patty,  the  candle,  now!”  Niobea said 
anxiously.
“Oh,” said Patty, who’d gotten distracted by the new arrivals and now 
hurriedly resumed rummaging through the cupboard.
Percy   stood   staring   at   her   youngest   sister’s   quick   panicked 
movements. And then she wiped her forehead tiredly and said, “I thought 
we used the last candle for All Hallow’s Eve.”
Patty stopped, turned around, her mouth falling open.
Niobea frowned. “You’re sure, child?”
In that moment the wind outside rose with a banshee scream, rattling 
the shutters, and then all of a sudden there was absolute silence.
Not a gust. As though someone had torn all the noise from the 
universe. It was so silent that everyone paused involuntarily, listening.
And in the silence, old Bethesia’s breath came rasping.
“Mother!” Alann said, feeling a sudden ill premonition. Forgetting 
his sludge-covered feet he took the steps to cross the small room to his old 
mother’s bedside.
“Oh, Gran!” Belle said, the same premonition bringing terror to her 
eyes.
Niobea stood up, dropping her needlework, and she crossed herself.
“Granny!” Patty exclaimed.
Percy remained standing near the door. She had grown absolutely 
still. And while the others had all their attention focused on the 
grandmother, Percy was looking to the shadow in the corner, the 
thickening of darkness at the head of the old woman’s bed.
Percy blinked, while cold filled her, a cold beyond all colds, beyond 
Winter itself.
The cold of recognition.
Because she knew that shadow. She had seen it before, in the indigo 
twilight, lurking beneath the trunks of the thickest oldest trees in the 
forest, at the edges of the lake where the shore sloped into nothing just 
before it touched the water.
The edges of things contained traces of it. The endings.
Most recently it had slithered in her grandmother’s dark irises and 
then sank away into the pupils, appearing then dissolving, as though not 
wanting to be caught just yet.
And now here it was, fully formed in the thickness of shadows.
Percy was not surprised at all. She looked at it blankly, and wondered 
why no one else in the room had bothered to glance in that shadowed 
corner at the head of Bethesia’s bed, why no one else seemed to notice this 
thing for which she had no name.
“So . . . dark and . . . quiet,” Bethesia whispered, her breathing 
coming laboriously.
“Oh, God!” Niobea said, trembling, coming to stand before the bed, 
while Alann put his hand on his mother’s cold and clammy forehead.
“Ah . . . Alann . . .” Bethesia breathed, each intake of air a great harsh 
shudder. Her shallow chest rose and fell.
It was interminable.
“She is going . . .” whispered Niobea. “No time to get the priest. He 
wouldn’t come in this storm anyway, not for us.”
“Silent, woman,” Alann said in carefully controlled anger, not 
wanting to raise his voice so near the old woman, and yet wanting to yell, 
to scream. “Don’t speak this way, Niobea, don’t speak a word, if you 
must. Belle, Percy, someone get water!”
“Yes, I . . . I’ll heat some water in the kettle,” Belle said. And she 
turned hurriedly to refill the kettle from the clay water jar.
“Look in the back there on the second shelf,” Niobea whispered. 
“I’ve saved a small box with dry tea. Make it, now.”
“Yes, Ma.”
“Aaaah. . . .” Bethesia moaned.
“Oh, God in Heaven, have mercy!” Alann held the skeletal hands of 
his mother, stroked her forehead. His strong rough-hewn face was 
contorted, and he was biting his lips.
They stood thus, long moments filled only with the regular sound of 
harsh breath issuing out of the old woman, while Patty and Belle searched 
for the box of tea, and the kettle water boiled.
Niobea pulled up a bench to the bedside, and made Alann sit down, 
while she sat next to him.
The fire crackled, and Percy took several steps forward, ignored by 
all, until she stood near the head of the bed and faced the shadow.
Up close, it had no face. There was neither shape nor texture to it, 
only a sense of non-being so pronounced that it stood out.
“Who are you?” whispered Percy—so softly that her mother barely 
raised her head, then looked away again. Niobea had taken a tiny holy 
icon of the Mother of God from its nook altar in the corner, and now she 
held it gingerly in her hands, reciting a voiceless prayer with her lips only.
The shadow remained silent.
The kettle had boiled and Belle poured the water over a small 
sprinkle of precious dry tea leaves in a large wooden bowl. She stirred it 
with a wooden spoon until the water turned the color of amber, then even 
darker, and a faint barely pungent vapor curled from the surface.
Long moments passed while the tea cooled somewhat. Belle poured it 
into a mug over straining cloth and passed it to Alann who attempted to 
lift Bethesia’s head up just enough so that he could tip the mug at her lips.
The old woman lay passive, a doll. She did not make any attempt to 
part her lips or swallow, so that the warm tea dribbled down the withered 
skin of her cheeks, ran down her chin and throat and soaked her thin 
cotton nightshirt.
“No . . .” she gurgled eventually, her voice faint as a feather. “Let me 
be, son. . . . See, it stands here waiting for me . . . My time . . . at hand. 
How quiet. . . .”
Patty frowned, looking around then, glancing at the silent shutters on 
the windows, and the barely crackling fireplace.
“It really is odd,” she whispered. “Why has it gotten so quiet?”
“What, mother?” Niobea said gently, “What do you see?”
At which point Alann began to weep. He hid his face against the old 
woman’s chest and his form shook silently.
“I see it,” Percy said, responding in her grandmother’s stead. 
“There’s a thing of shadow that is standing right here in the corner, near 
Gran’s head. I’m not sure what it is, and it does not seem to be frightening 
or even moving. It’s like a strange sentinel.”
“Hush!” Niobea exclaimed, turning to her middle daughter with 
anguish and outrage. “How dare you say such things, horrible child, and at 
a time like this! Have respect for your poor grandmother!”
Percy looked directly in her mother’s eyes. “But,” she said. “But I 
can see it!”
“Get out!” Niobea screamed. She was trembling, clutching the icon 
of the Lord’s Mother wrapped in their best cotton towel, so that it nearly 
dropped to the floor.
Percy’s eyes were great and dark and liquid.
While Belle and Patty stared at their sister in silence, she turned away 
slowly. And then Percy walked to the corner rack where their coats and 
shawls hung. Moving as though in a dream, she took the only woolen 
shawl down from the peg, wrapped it around herself, then took her ragged 
coat and put it on.
What are you doing, child?
But no, she had only imagined it. The words seemed to ring in her 
mind, soft, kind, even though no one had spoken. They were the words she 
wanted with all her heart to hear, from someone, anyone. Words that 
would have given her a reason to pause.
Had it been another time, maybe her father would have spoken them. 
He was always the kindest, and he seemed to notice things a bit more than 
the others.
But now Alann was made insensitive by grief, his face hidden in his 
dying mother’s chest, oblivious to all around them.
And thus the words were not spoken at all.
And Percy did not pause but pulled up the bolt and then parted the 
door a bit, feeling the evening twilight and the icy cold rush in all at once.
She stepped outside in the quiet, closed the door securely behind her, 
and made sure it was sealed tight. Knowing that no one would bother to 
look back to watch her passing, she did not want them to grow chill—not 
from her own carelessness.
Then Percy stood on the porch of their house, bathed by an 
impossible silence. There was no wind, only peculiar gentle snowfall. In 
the twilight the snowflakes came in delicate clumps or individually, 
crystals from the sky. They dusted the white ground with a fresh crisp 
layer, and they sparkled on the branches of the old elm tree in the 
backyard and the thatched roof of the barn beyond which lay their tiny 
field, and across the street, the neighbors’ houses. They landed on her 
eyelashes and swept her cheeks.
The world was suspended.
Percy stood there like a dolt, having nowhere really to go, and indeed 
no will to do anything. She then slowly lowered herself on the ground and 
sat down in a lump right in front of her father’s house, feet tucked 
underneath her, wrapping the burlap skirt tightly to keep out the ice and 
tucking her hands in her sleeves since she had forgotten her mittens.
She froze gently and watched the snow.
Something strange was happening, and it had to do with the shadow 
in the corner, the one that had stood sentinel over Gran’s head.
Persephone, strange girl, knew somehow that, although tonight had 
been her grandmother’s time, yet at the same time it had not—would not 
be. For she knew with a certainty that death was not going to claim her, or 
anyone else for that matter.
Neither this night, nor the next.
Chapter 2
Death’s fourth stop was magnificent and most distant of all, to the south, 
in the heart of the Realm. And, as with all the others, not a heartbeat 
elapsed.
The Silver Court was the Imperial Seat of power of the Realm—the 
capital and the center of all things. Neither a full-fledged city nor a proper 
citadel, it retained elements of both, incorporating splendid structures of 
the grand Imperial Palace, three immense cathedrals, including the 
Basilica Dei Coello, numerous galleries, lyceums, ornamental gardens, 
and outlying estates.
Situated at the exact meeting point of the three kingdoms—Lethe, 
Styx, and Morphaea—the Silver Court was officially its own entity, and 
the three kingdoms surrounding it sprawled outward like subservient 
petals from its neutral core. In theory this ensured that the Emperor could 
never play favorites among the vassal kingdoms. In practice, the kingdoms 
of the Realm eternally vied for imperial privilege and attention, and could 
only be united against a common threat to the south, beyond the foreign 
borders—a chronic threat issuing from the Realm’s grand neighbor, the 
Domain.
The Silver Court of the Realm took its name from the grandiose 
silver-trimmed Hall of the Imperial Palace where the Emperor Josephuste 
Liguon II and the Emperors before him held the most splendid balls in the 
world. The Hall’s lofty ceiling was painted by the great Fiorello into a 
scene of Heaven where each cloud had not merely a silver lining but was 
coated completely with a paper-thin sheet of pressed silver, and where the 
Figure of God shone with the purity of this metal while the beatific Angels 
wore silver halos.
Gold had been deemed too much of a worldly metal by the ancient 
Emperor whose conceit this Hall had been. And unfortunately, since silver 
tarnished so easily, the whole of the grand Hall had to be polished and 
restored every season by a cadre of Imperial Silversmiths.
From the ceiling were suspended a hundred chandeliers of transparent 
crystal, while more crystal hung in garlands on the walls that were the 
color of deep burgundy.
The Emperor Josephuste and the Empress Justinia held court while 
seated upon silver thrones trimmed with burgundy velvet, and the light of 
a thousand candles shone upon the mirror-polished wooden mosaic of the 
lacquered parquet floor.
It was the depth of winter now and the roof and overhangs of the 
Palace were covered with the ermine coat of snow. Within the walls the 
myriad corridors were a hive of mayhem as servants of every rank sped 
about on their tasks. For, tonight was the great Birthday Feast of the 
Infanta, only beloved daughter of the Emperor, and all of the nobility were 
invited, including select foreign royalty.
Outside the Palace the wind howled, swirling snowflakes into a haze 
of whiteness, and the darkening sky was the color of faint mauve twilight 
and milk. Aristocratic carriages arrived one after another at the gates, met 
by liveried servants who seemed permanently fixed in bowed stances from 
their non-stop genuflecting and from the relentless cold.
Today the Infanta turned sixteen, and would make her social debut as 
a grown Princess of the Realm and no longer a child.
The Infanta, Claere Liguon, was a slight and sickly creature, and her 
ailments were so plentiful and frequent that she was almost never seen in 
public at all. Tonight she was to put in a brief appearance as the clock 
struck eight, and then, after a dutiful hour of hearing out the Court’s 
congratulations and receiving gifts, she would once again retire to her 
living quarters and immediately to bed where she spent most of her time.
The Silver Hall was filling with noble guests as Peers of the Realm 
arrived in elegant haste yet with a proper semblance of nonchalance—
dukes and baronets and marquises and counts and minor lordlings 
accompanied by their bedecked spouses, all having surrendered their 
winter furs and capes at the Palace foyer into the accommodating hands of 
imperial liveried lackeys.
The Chamberlains had grown hoarse from announcing His Lordship 
so-and-so and Her Ladyship this-and-that with every breath. The great 
long gift table on the side of the hall was overflowing with garishly 
sparkling wrapped boxes, containers of all shapes and sizes, chests, 
baskets, trinkets, trifles, and curiosities. There were numerous clockwork 
toys, for none could rival the clockmakers of the Realm for their skill with 
the delicate timepiece mechanisms—armies of windup miniature horses of 
lacquered wood and ivory bore upon their backs tiny metallic knights, and 
reposed on platforms in military lineups; delicate copper and gold birds 
with jewel eyes perched within filigree cages; porcelain courtier dolls 
wearing full crinolines or jackets of lace and crimson silk stood in various 
poses of suspended half-life.
 Meanwhile, gossip bounced like champagne bubbles around the hall.
“Can you imagine the poor sickly dear finally venturing forth into le 
haute monde  on her sixteenth birthday?” the distinguished and well-
preserved Duchess Christiana Rovait of Morphaea uttered in a stage 
whisper, fanning herself and inclining her grand-wigged and powdered 
head closer to the equally grandiose head of the Countess Jain Lirabeau 
whose northern estate lay within the same kingdom.
“Oh, tonight is going to be very interesting,” the sultry Countess 
Lirabeau replied in a softer voice. She was young and beautiful and yet 
powdered so that her skin was fashionably wan and matte as porcelain, 
while her lips were a shock of delicately outlined crimson. Her wig stood 
up a foot and a half over her head, its ringlets meticulously arranged and 
strings of pearls winding through the silver locks. “I dare say the Infanta 
will be coddled as always by her Imperial Papa, and then rushed off out of 
sight. That’s when the real excitement will begin. His Imperial Majesty 
has more pressing matters in the form of Balmue-flavored politics. The 
envoys of the King of Balmue are here. Look, there, toward the back near 
the Duke of Plaimes and his gawky son—see those four men clad in silver 
and sienna brown? Those colors they wear are shades of Balmue. And if I 
am not mistaken, there are enough secret sympathizers in the Silver Court 
to make things very interesting indeed.”
“Interesting and quite tense—goodness, is that the wind I hear 
outside? Interminable blizzard. Now, what of the outcome of the 
confrontation between the Red and Blue Dukes tonight? Any news on 
that? Oh, how I do adore Lethe’s chronic military antics—or what passes 
for such, directly under the nose of their poor Prince Osenni. He is not 
here, is he? No, I dare say not—not with the old dear Queen Andrelise so 
very indisposed.”
“I am certain all of Lethe stayed home. We are stuck with our own, 
and most of Styx. They even brought His youthful Majesty King Augustus 
Ixion. There he stands, the poor boy, surrounded by grave old men. Most 
depressing, I dare say, if he is hoping to get more than a moment with the 
Infanta. But then, one is never too young to start planning royal 
connections.”
But the Duchess Rovait barely deigned to glance in the direction of 
the very young and newly orphaned King of Styx, a thin, anxious-faced 
youth of no more than fourteen, overdressed in pearl-embroidered crimson 
and black velvet, bewigged like a gilded doll, and surrounded indeed by 
distinguished “advisors.” Royal children did not interest her, and neither 
did political puppets, and she was apparently more interested in discussing 
Lethe.
“Goraque’s  retinue   is  noticeably  absent,”  the  Duchess  Rovait 
continued. “And as for Chidair, Lord knows he is a strange fellow, and is 
not to be expected to be present, not even with all of Balmue knocking at 
our gates.”
“Yes, Duke Hoarfrost would much rather pummel his neighbor than 
an actual adversary,” remarked Jain Lirabeau mockingly. Her eyes 
glittered remarkably tonight, with belladonna-enhanced dark pupils, under 
the thousand candles of the Hall. And, oh, how well her cornflower blue 
crinoline dress offset her porcelain pallor. . . .
“Now, Vitalio Goraque, on the other hand, he would have been here 
no doubt—”
“Fie! That is absurd! How could he manage to be here on the same 
night as the battle? Were he to ride breakneck and put three horses to 
lather, he’d still make it to Court only by morning, at the earliest.”
“Oh, no you misunderstand, my dear,” said the Duchess Rovait, 
laughing. “The very notion would be ludicrous, just taking into account 
the distance between here and there. And indeed, no man is expected to 
forgo the military pleasures for any other enterprise. What I meant was, 
Goraque is a true man of Court—even if the rest of Lethe leaves much to 
be desired in that respect—and he would have been here, if such a thing 
were achievable.”
“In that case, I do see what you mean, Your Grace. Though, indeed, a 
man of one court does not equal a man of another. They cannot hope to 
rival the refinement of Morphaea with its urban splendors of Duorma—
Letheburg’s Palace is nothing to Duorma’s Palazzio. We breed nobility, 
lofty and true, I always recall, when I am back at home up north, or when I 
visit your own idyllic estate, or when I attend the gracious court of His 
Majesty Orphe Geroard. Nothing but the Silver Court itself will ever 
exceed the courtly pleasure of sweet Morphaea.”
“Yes, and now you flatter and tease, my charming dear girl—but, do 
go on in this precise manner, with such delightful exaggerating!”
“Well, only a little!”
In that moment of their rapturous native reminiscence, a slim, dark 
nobleman approached the Duchess and Countess. He bowed deeply before 
them, interrupting the splendid stream of gossip with his sudden presence.
“Ah, my dear Vlau! I am perfectly flabbergasted to see you here after 
all!” exclaimed the Countess Lirabeau, and even the white sheen of 
powder could not conceal a sudden blooming of rose color in her cheeks. 
“For some reason I didn’t imagine for a moment that you were seriously 
planning to attend. But you are here, and I am . . . gratified!” With a flutter 
she turned to her more matronly companion, saying, “Your Grace, may I 
introduce the Marquis Vlau Fiomarre?”
The Marquis bowed again, his impeccable elegance of movement so 
pleasing that the Duchess Rovait could not help but allow her gaze to 
linger on the young man’s willowy frame clad in somber black. His 
serviceable, but badly fitting wig was almost carelessly under-powdered, 
revealing at the edges his real hair with much of its natural darkness 
showing, gathered behind him in a queue. But none of it mattered, for his 
shoulders were wide and his eyes black, disturbing with their intensity. 
His eyes affected her with a thrill, for despite her maturity, the Duchess 
was not immune to male charms.
“It is a pleasure, Your Grace. And well met again, My Lady 
Lirabeau. My deepest thanks for your most kind references in my 
admittance to this Imperial Assembly.”
The Duchess Rovait dropped her fan so that it dangled on a satin 
tassel at her wrist, and then picked up her lorgnette and trained it at the 
young man. “Fiomarre,” she mused. “Why do I know this name? Is that 
one of the south-east provinces?”
“Almost correct, Your Grace,” he replied in a somber voice, focusing 
a gaze of his beautiful, disturbing eyes at her. “It is a small Styx 
principality to the south and west of here, bordering with Balmue. We 
grow grapes and olives, Your Grace. That is, my father’s lands grow these 
crops—”
“Aha!” Christiana Rovait said, as her brows swept upward and her 
lorgnette dropped back on its golden chain. “Now I recall, young man, 
Fiomarre cognac! I knew it sounded familiar. Wonderfully virile, dare one 
say it—erotic stuff.”
For the first time the Marquis Fiomarre’s serious face allowed a faint 
trace of a smile to soften his expression—but only for a moment. And he 
bowed once again, acknowledging the Duchess’s blatant compliment.
There was a lull in the chatter as noteworthy new arrivals appeared at 
the grand entrance of the Silver Hall.
“The Right Honorable Lady Amaryllis Roulle of Morphaea, the Right 
Honorable Lady Ignacia Chitain of Styx, and the Right Honorable Lord 
Nathan Woult of Morphaea!” a Chamberlain announced.
And the Silver Court turned to ogle the newcomers, for these were 
three of the most dashing and popular of the younger set, and together they 
called themselves the League of Folly.
Lady Amaryllis was a slim tall beauty with black hair and pale 
delicate skin—a dark antique pagan goddess. Tonight she wore a brilliant 
scarlet gown trimmed with black velvet and braid of the exact deep ebony 
shade as her hair that, unfortunately, in all its resplendent glory, was 
fashionably concealed by the powdered pallor of a tall wig. Lady 
Amaryllis had the tongue of a wasp and the sharpness of an angry fae, but 
also knew how to be so charming that she was everyone’s darling, and 
ruled the Silver Court like the Faerie Queen herself.
At her side, Lady Ignacia Chitain wearing jade green, paled into 
insignificance, despite her equally marvelous wig and powder concealing 
what was known to be radiant auburn hair, and a fair flawless complexion.
Finally, came the young Lord Nathan Woult dressed in silver velvet. 
His own disdainful elegance, a pristine metallic wig over midnight hair, 
and pale bloodless features, made him a fitting consort to the unspoken 
Faerie Queen of the League of Folly and the Silver Court.
“Trouble is here,” said the Countess Lirabeau, glancing at the 
newcomers.
“Ah, poppycock,” the Duchess Rovait retorted, once more lifting her 
lorgnette to examine the elegant newcomers, and Lord Woult in particular. 
“These are lovely children, my dear, and you must learn to observe them 
as such. They are a fair source of entertainment.”
“They are wicked!” Jain Lirabeau said in a loud whisper. Somehow it 
coincided with a general lull in conversation and was thus heard all the 
way down the Hall. Realizing her own blunder, the Countess bit her lower 
lip and sighed.
“Wicked? Who is wicked?” Lady Ignacia exclaimed with a giggle, 
while Lady Amaryllis said, “It must be us, my dear.” And, without 
changing the expression of her haughty blank face, she headed straight for 
the Countess Lirabeau’s group.
“Now see what you’ve done,” the Duchess Rovait said in affectionate 
frustration. “We must now deal with les infants terribles.”
“Your Grace!” Lady Amaryllis curtsied deeply before the Duchess. 
She then repeated the curtsey, but lingered mockingly, before the 
Countess. And then she paused before Marquis Fiomarre, seeing him for 
the first time. Dark capricious eyes observed another pair of dark eyes of 
unusual intensity.
“My sweet girl,” the Duchess Rovait said with fondness, nodding in 
acknowledgement. “You are wicked indeed, as Jain informs us, and none 
of it is news. But here’s a lovely young man straight from the country of 
wines and cognac, and you must be kind to him. May I present the Lady 
Amaryllis Roulle—the Marquis Vlau Fiomarre.”
Fiomarre barely touched the delicate gloved hand of Lady Amaryllis 
and, bowing, brought it near his lips without making contact, in a 
semblance of a courtly kiss.
Lady Amaryllis lifted one dark perfect brow but said nothing, for his 
vacant nonchalance struck her somehow. So very few—indeed, close to 
none—would forgo the opportunity to press their lips firmly upon her 
gloved hand. She had never seen this young man at court before, and his 
manner was more aloof and distracted than she was accustomed to 
observing in the male sex, especially where it concerned their attentions to 
her.
Other general introductions followed. Lady Ignacia chattered about 
the contents of the overladen gift table of the Infanta and fanned herself 
with a pretty contraption of sandalwood and satin and feathers. Minutes 
slid away while the grand Silver Hall continued to fill to bursting with the 
crème de la crème of le haute monde.
At last the Chamberlains cried for silence and announced the full 
roster of names, pedigrees, and titles of the Emperor and Empress. And 
then trumpeters stood forth clad in crimson and silver livery, and they 
played the processional that announced the arrival of the Imperial Pair.
The morass of nobility parted, making a wide pathway through the 
middle of the Silver Hall, and the double doors on the opposite side 
opened wide, revealing two life-size doll-figures of regal splendor.
His Imperial Majesty the Emperor Josephuste Liguon II, frozen in a 
dramatic pose at the entrance, wore a heavy gold brocade jacket and 
trousers, Imperial Epaulets and red sash, and the Medal of the Crown and 
Cross that covered his small chest like an ornate buckler of spun metallic 
lace. His greying head and bald spot were concealed underneath an 
impeccable powdered wig of spun silver, and his white-gloved fingers 
rested like perched doves against the pommel of the ceremonial Sword of 
State and his wide gilded belt.
Standing next to the Emperor in an equally poised manner was Her 
Imperial Majesty the Empress Justinia, a similarly petite creature in a 
gown of many layers of satin and brocade, of a color that was warm 
golden like a blazing fireplace, and yet silvered through and through with 
fine metallic thread. The silver wig of the Empress was piled nearly two 
feet high and topped with a golden coronet from which hung garlands of 
pearls and topaz. Around her pale throat rested a choker necklace of 
emeralds, diamonds, and rubies clustered thickly like a colorful bouquet of 
impossible value. A matching ring of similar stones sat on her gloved 
index finer, and similar heavy earrings hung from her lobes.
The Emperor had a washed out face and pale brows enhanced by 
powder and rouge and kohl, while the Empress was likewise wan 
underneath her layers of Imperial makeup. They stood posed like dolls 
while the court gazed upon them in awed silence, and then after an 
appropriate time they stepped forth into the Silver Hall and walked like 
dancers across the aisle vacated by the court toward their thrones, flanked 
by two rows of bedecked Guards of the Chamber.
The Emperor sat down first, with a slow awkward movement, and 
then froze in that position, while the Empress took a moment longer to 
unfurl her bulging crinoline skirts while two Ladies-in-Attendance came 
forward to fold and rearrange them at her feet.
Finally the trumpets blared again and then Josephuste Liguon II 
uttered in a high-pitched voice, “We declare the Festivities Open!”
Immediately the trumpets went mad with fanfare and the musicians 
placed all around the Silver Hall joined in with lutes and violas, with 
cymbals and drums.
They were signaling the entrance of the Infanta.
“Oh, here she comes, the poor dear,” the Countess Lirabeau 
whispered, while the Duchess Rovait trained the full power of her 
attention and her lorgnette upon the grand doors.
Next to them, Vlau Fiomarre stood and watched the doors intensely, 
his dark soulful eyes unreadable, while Lady Amaryllis threw several 
irritated and ignored glances in his direction as she exchanged barbs of wit 
with the sarcastic Lord Woult.
As the fanfare died away into silence, the Chamberlain announced: 
“Presenting Her Imperial Highness, the Infanta Claere Liguon, making her 
Debut as the Grand Princess and Heir of the Realm!”
The Infanta, all in winter white, entered the Silver Hall. She was thin 
and shallow-chested, with arms like twigs, and her small pinched face 
nearly drowned under the elaborate monstrosity that was her powdered 
silver wig sprinkled with diamonds and pearls that created the illusion of a 
sparkling snowdrift from a distance. Delicate curled ringlets of hair rested 
sadly against her bony sagging shoulders. Her smoke-grey eyes appeared 
great and luminous in the hollowed sockets, encircled by darkness of 
exhaustion or disease, and were her only feature of beauty.
The Infanta moved slowly, taking uncertain steps that lacked grace 
but disguised her shortcoming by the care taken in each placement of 
small tiny-heeled slippered feet, one before the other, as though she were 
counting the paces in her head. Indeed, maybe she was. Maybe she 
measured and timed each pace and each shallow breath, and each flutter of 
her weakling heart and lungs.
The Infanta walked the length of the Hall and paused before her 
Imperial parents. Clutching her crinoline skirts, slowly she curtsied—first 
before her Emperor Father who gazed at her enchanted with an adoring 
smile, then before the Empress her Mother, who smiled and nodded.
Then, the Infanta walked several steps forward and a silver chair was 
brought for her, which she took almost with gratitude, folding her skirts 
around her feet and placing her impossibly thin white-gloved hands in her 
lap. The pre-arranged placement of her chair had assured that she was thus 
seated in the center of the Hall, half-turned to face her Imperial parents 
and also turned to face the crowds of the nobility.
The Gift Ceremony was about to commence.
“Happy sixteenth birthday, my dear child!” said the Emperor. “May 
this be the beginning of greatest joy! We love you dearly and we all wish 
you well in your youthful entry into the ranks of the world. Now, the 
Silver Court would like to express their great adoration for you and to 
honor you with Gifts on this Great Occasion.”
The musicians around the hall struck up a gentle stringed melody 
while from the grand entrance of the hallway entered a line of beautiful 
child pages dressed as fanciful fae in wispy delicate silk and gauze, and 
carrying the edges of a long white carpet that they unrolled as they moved. 
Behind them came more children holding filigree gilded baskets filled 
with cut hothouse blossoms of various pale hues which they scattered 
along the white carpet and threw into the crowd of courtiers lining the 
aisle on both sides.
Soft gasps of pleasure, female giggles and exclamations were heard 
as the blossoms and petals rained upon the Silver Court.
“Ah!” Lady Ignacia squealed and moved back a step, nearly falling 
into the arms of the Marquis Fiomarre. A great white carnation struck her 
in the face, followed by the cream petals of pale winter roses that rained 
upon her wig and stuck to her exposed décolleté, then slipped down the 
layers of her crinoline skirt.
The Marquis obliged her by reaching out a somewhat stiff hand to 
hold up her elbow, while Lady Amaryllis gave a charming peal of laughter 
and exchanged a superior look with Lord Woult.
“Careful, Marquis,” Amaryllis Roulle said. “For you will only have 
the flowers to blame for an untoward caress.”
The Marquis Fiomarre had not been paying her the least bit of 
attention all this time, and now he turned the soulful dark gaze of his eyes 
to Lady Amaryllis. Then he glanced back to Lady Ignacia whose gloved 
elbow he continued to hold absentmindedly and now released with 
abruptness as though realizing the impropriety. He said in a somewhat 
stumbling manner, “I beg pardon of Your Ladyship, I meant no 
offense. . . .”
Lady Ignacia continued her breathless giggling, while Lord Woult 
turned his handsome head closer to the dainty beauty of Lady Amaryllis 
and whispered, “I see we have a country buffoon.”
Lady Amaryllis’s lips trembled in sarcastic rapture. “Yes, apparently 
there won’t be much sport. It is too easy.”
Fiomarre did not show any indication that he’d heard the exchange. 
He now stood stiffly at a polite distance and watched the procession.
The child pages swept the length of the hall and emptied their baskets 
at the feet of the seated Infanta, strewing the most fragrant and delicate 
petals directly closest the hem of her resplendent white dress. Then, like 
fae creatures they ran back and disappeared, while in their place came a 
lovely solitary boy, no older than seven. He was dressed all in white and 
silver, his face and hands and long platinum-flax hair dusted in silver 
powder, and his lashes and brows silvered to highlight his pale grey eyes. 
The Snow Child walked the length of the white carpet, stepping like a 
dancer upon the strewn flowers, and carrying before him a white silk 
cushion upon which rested a coronet encrusted with so many diamonds 
that they eclipsed the metal and it was impossible to determine if the 
crown was silver or gold.
Pausing before the Infanta he kneeled delicately and waited, his head 
inclined before her.
“My dear,” the Emperor Josephuste said. “Behold Our Gift of the 
Imperial Crown. May you take it and wear it at all Court occasions until it 
is your time to succeed me and wear my Medal of the Crown and Cross, at 
which point you will be free to wear any other headdress as is befitting an 
Empress of the Realm.”
The Infanta paused for an instant while the Silver Court made a 
collective “ah” of admiration.
In that moment, outside the Palace came a sudden strong gust of gale-
force wind which rattled all the windows, and then just as suddenly there 
was perfect silence. The wind died away into oblivion, yet no one inside 
paid the least bit of attention to it. For they all watched the Infanta as she 
reached out and took the Imperial Crown with slightly shaking hands, and 
then she placed it on top of her wig. Immediately the Snow Child stood up 
and readjusted the Crown so that it sat just right, and the Court “ah”ed 
once again, for now that the Crown was elevated nearer the chandeliers it 
shone like a cluster of stars.
“I thank You dearly, Your Imperial Majesties, my Father and my 
Mother,” said the Infanta, speaking for the first time, and her voice was 
hollow and faint, that of a child, in the new silence. She rose and curtsied 
deeply before the Imperial Thrones, then lowered herself down once again 
with barely perceptible difficulty. She would stay in the seat for the 
remainder of the evening, for the other gifts and well wishes would be 
from the rest of the nobility, and would not warrant more than a polite nod 
of acknowledgement.
“Line up for the Presentation of Birthday Wishes!” cried the 
Chamberlain. At this point the Snow Child disappeared along the length of 
the white carpet and at the far end of the carpet nearest the entrance a line 
of nobility formed. All present came to stand in the queue to have a 
chance to express their well wishes and congratulations to the Infanta. At 
the head of the line stood the young King of Styx—the only non-Imperial 
Royal present—then the highest-ranking aristocrats, dukes and marquises 
of the three kingdoms, followed by counts and viscounts and baronets.
“Time to speak a pretty word or two to the dear child,” the Duchess 
Rovait said as she moved with a grand rustling of skirts into the line of 
well-wishers. The Countess Jain Lirabeau tapped the elbow of the Marquis 
Fiomarre with her fan, and he blinked, then nodded shyly, and with a 
peculiar expression that may have been confusion, he followed her into the 
greeting line.
Lady Amaryllis stepped forward just behind Fiomarre, and stared at 
his tall back and well-proportioned shoulders. She also noted his slightly 
trembling hands.
“How wildly provincial,” she turned around and whispered to her 
accomplice Lady Ignacia.
“A wager?” retorted Lord Woult who stood just in back of them. 
“Fifty standings on the Marquis stumbling when he bows before her.”
“No, I do believe he will remain upright, but I insist he will stutter,” 
hissed Lady Ignacia.
“I say his voice will crack, and he will start to cough,” Lady 
Amaryllis snickered. “Fifty standings, and you are on, my dear Nathan.”
“This is wicked precious, and he will do at least one of these things or 
otherwise make a fool of himself!” Lady Ignacia whispered. “I can’t wait! 
Now the tedium of this night will surely be alleviated. Oh, how I adore 
wagers as a cure for everything!”
“Thank heaven for such prime fodder for our wicked fun,” Lady 
Amaryllis replied, stealing another glance at the pleasing form of the 
young man before her.
The line advanced quickly. Each noble lord and lady bowed or 
curtsied before the Infanta and whispered a word or two of greeting 
accompanied by a range of smiles—from the sincere, to the formal 
courtly, to the ingratiating. Claere Liguon’s small pale face was also 
frozen into a courtly smile that evolved more and more into a rictus of 
tension and eventually became a poor grimace of exhaustion.
“Happy Birthday, Your Imperial Highness!” they all said.
“May your future be filled with pleasure and delight!”
“This day is a glorious holiday for the Realm!”
“Your beauty and kindness grow every year!”
“No words can express our fondness of Your Imperial Highness!”
“You are the dearest most lovely Grand Princess in the history of our 
proud nation!”
The Infanta listened to them, nodding gently, repeating the words 
“thank you” in a faint whisper. At some point she was taken with a fit of 
coughing, and the old grand dame who was congratulating her in that 
moment went into a sympathetic fit of flutters, wringing her own hands 
and offering a silk handkerchief which the Infanta took with gratitude and 
placed against her lips momentarily, then lowered it to her lap.
She then continued to nod and smile faintly, but her facial expression 
now resembled the emptiness of a corpse.
“Oh, the poor dear is not holding up very well,” Jain Lirabeau 
whispered to the Duchess ahead of her, as the greeting line moved rather 
quickly and they neared the Infanta. One or two more lords and a lady in 
front of them, and it was now the Duchess Rovait who curtsied elegantly 
and stood before the seated Infanta, speaking something warm and 
genuinely kind to the Grand Princess.
The Marquis Fiomarre took yet another wooden step forward as the 
woman before him, Jain Lirabeau, now swept a deep curtsy and her voice 
carried as she spoke her greetings. His heart had grown cold as ice, and his 
extremities too were cold, like the winter outside, despite the pleasantly 
maintained warmth of the Silver Hall.
He should turn back. He could do it, simply fall back out of line, and 
walk away—but no, he should simply walk forward and proceed to speak 
the greeting, as everyone else, and nothing would happen. Such an easy 
thing he could do, just keep walking forward and go through the motions 
as everyone else. . . .
Like everyone.
Another instant, and the Countess Lirabeau was done, and the 
moment was at hand. His moment.
Vlau Fiomarre stood before the Infanta.
The world had stilled around him, around them, and he heard a 
distant rush of something in his temples. He looked at her, seeing only 
great silver-grey eyes looking up at him tiredly, barely registering him as a 
passing shadow before her field of vision.
He looked and saw the true pallor, the greyness of her skin up-close, 
barely concealed by powder. He saw the weight of the glittering whiteness 
that was her wig and Crown. And it was that last thing, a cluster of 
diamond snow stars, that he focused on, that reminded him of his purpose 
as he stood, his lips parting not with words but upon a silence, while his 
right hand reached to the folds of his black velvet jacket, and with a long-
practiced movement drew out a small sharp thing of steel.
That dagger had been in the family Fiomarre for generations, and it 
was the same one that had been used more than once for acts of ultimate 
honor.
And now, Fiomarre felt its grip, ice-cold and sure. And in silence he 
plunged it forward, taking an additional step, closing the distance between 
them, taking hold of her pale exposed shoulder and thrusting the blade into 
her. It was at that touch on her shoulder that she started, made a sound of 
surprise, awakening, and then, the next instant the steel was inside her like 
a lover, striking her directly underneath her shallow left breast as she 
gasped.
The rest of the moments elongated and became dreams.
The Infanta’s faint cry; a second gasp coming in unison from all 
throats in the Silver Hall.
Then, long and short distorted screams all around, a clatter of armor 
from the Imperial guards as they moved in too late; the feel of merciless 
hands upon him as he was taken in a vise of iron and then dragged 
backward, beginning to cry out, on top of his lungs, “Death to the Liguon! 
Death to the Deceiver and his filthy Line!”
Clamor and madness and again terrible silence—for as Fiomarre 
cried out, he was dealt blows on his face, blows on his chest which took 
his breath and silenced him momentarily, while he panted in fury, in 
exultation, knowing now that he had accomplished what he had dared only 
in his dreams, and that Fiomarre was revenged at last and he could die 
with honor. . . .
But the silence had come because the Infanta stood up now, slowly, 
trembling.
She stood, hands upraised in a gesture that was a question and 
surprise, while the dagger of Fiomarre was lodged up to the hilt in her 
chest, and a crimson stain bloomed from its centerpoint like a winter rose. 
The stain increased, blood running down her chest in rivulets, making 
patterns of red icicles on her dress, her crinoline skirt, while she looked 
down on it, eyes great and filled with strange new life, a sharp awareness, 
as though in death she had come to be fully alive for one acute final 
moment.
The Infanta’s lips were parted, and they mouthed a silent “why?” 
while a tiny trickle of red came at the side of her lips, to slide gently down 
her white cheek.
And then because she yet did not crumple, did not fall as expected, 
the physicians who had been summoned and who had come running in 
seconds, stood a few steps away from her in odd expectancy, while the 
Emperor and Empress stood also, having gotten up from their Thrones like 
broken gilded puppets.
There was a circle of emptiness around her.
The Infanta stood while her blood continued to empty out of her 
chest. Her gaze was clouded with pain yet did not lose its impossible 
intensity as she searched the crowd and then found him and stopped to 
look at him. She looked at the one who had struck her this blow, who now 
stood restrained by many guards, stricken in his own way. He was 
watching her in return, in horrible wonder, as everyone else in the Silver 
Hall.
The Infanta took a step toward him, stepping in a puddle of deep red
—her own blood. “Why?” she said softly. “What have I done to you?”
“Die, Liguon!” he whispered hoarsely. But when the guards on both 
sides of him threw him to his knees, she raised her hand in a stopping 
gesture.
“No,” she said in a loud strong voice the like of which had never 
before issued out of her. “Do not yet kill this man as he had tried to kill 
me. I must know why he did this thing, why he hates me so. He must live 
until I know.”
And then her upright position faltered, at which point the physicians 
rushed to support her, to check the wound in her chest.
One doctor wanted to pull forth the dagger, while another prevented 
him in terrified silence, knowing that the dagger was also a precarious 
safety plug over a hole that contained unknown internal damage, and that 
its dislodging could cause a final bleeding.
And yet, thought that same doctor, how was it possible that this was 
not a fatal wound? For it was right at her heart, and yet the Infanta lived. 
“We must take her to her quarters, tend to her, quickly now!” he and the 
others muttered.
But in that moment the Infanta’s small hand reached down—while 
they fussed over her, holding her up, trying to make her lie down, trying to 
carry her, or feeling her brow, her pulse, her throat—and she pulled out 
the dagger from her own chest.
Blood came gushing out, the last vestiges of it; rich like wine. And in 
unexpected terror they attempted to stop it, putting up ripped pieces of her 
skirt, holding bunches of fabric at her chest against the flood, against the 
inevitability.
And yet she lived, and her breath seemed to have stilled, but she 
watched them. One of the doctors listening to her chest exclaimed 
suddenly, in horrified awe, “Her heart! It has stopped!” 
“But no, it cannot be!” the others said.
There was absolute quiet in the Hall, and the winter wind had long 
been silenced outside, as though swallowed by a void.
And she shook them off then—shook off their useless touches and 
ministrations, and threw down the bloodied crumpled rags, and got up.
The Infanta stood in the Silver Hall, covered with her own life blood, 
red upon white, while her heart had stopped many moments ago, and her 
lungs did not fill with breath unless she consciously willed it.
There was no need for heartbeat, or for breath, now.
The Infanta stood before them, dead and yet living, and their hands 
shook while they crossed themselves, in terror.
“I will see the Birthday Gifts now,” she whispered.
The man came riding like the wind. He swept through the darkness of the 
village Oarclaven, waking Percy from her freezing sleep as she sat on her 
father’s porch.
He wore red and gold, muted by the night, and yet the design of his 
livery and the pennant he bore was recognizable as the Duke Vitalio 
Goraque’s own colors.
“Neither side wins!” he cried. “It’s a riot, but neither side wins! 
Witchcraft and unholy abomination is upon us!”
And as people started to come out of their houses, the messenger’s 
hoarse voice continued railing and dissolving into echoes as he receded 
along the streets, on his way to the heart of the Dukedom, the Castle 
Goraque.
Percy got up, stomping her wooden feet, not feeling anything in her 
frozen extremities—were these her toes, her fingers, or some other’s?—
just as the door behind her opened and her sister Patty’s face peered from 
the inside, silhouetted against the fireplace glow.
At the same time the neighbors from two houses down opened their 
door, in turn causing old uncle Roald from directly across the street to step 
out into the cold in nothing but his long nightgown and sleeping cap. 
“Heh? What was that about?” he bellowed, sending the dogs to barking 
and thus waking up the rest of the neighborhood as surely as the 
messenger had managed to disturb only a portion of their slumber.
Percy’s father was now standing behind her, his face shadowed, and 
his large palm on Patty’s tiny shoulder, moving her gently out of the way 
and stepping onto the porch.
He saw his middle daughter and came awake, it seemed. “What’s 
this? Go inside, girl, you’ll freeze . . .” he whispered hoarsely, his voice 
leached of all strength by tears.
Percy obeyed, gratitude welling within her—despite a wall of winter-
ice atrophy that seemed to have grown solid, taken hold of her flesh (death 
had latched onto her but did not consume). She had dreamed as she sat in 
the cold, it seemed, dreamed of unresolved moving shadows and delicate 
white cobwebs. And now she slipped past her father and sister into their 
dwelling, into the firelight and the stilled death and air only slightly 
warmer than the winter outside.
Out in the street the neighbors continued conversing. She heard their 
familiar voices talk of Ducal armies and battles fought on ice in the dark. 
But all she could see was her mother Niobea’s stonelike form, sitting at 
the bedside of Gran, holding the icon of the Mother of God at her breast, 
while the same shadow stood in the corner.
That and her grandmother’s rhythmic death rattle.
It would not stop.
Hours later came dawn, but no respite for old Bethesia. Only the winter 
sun had risen, turning the sky milk-grey.
Belle and Patty had fallen asleep in their chairs, and Niobea seemed 
not to breathe as she sat with her eyes closed, as the dawn seeped in 
through the slits in the poorly shuttered windows.
The fire in the hearth had burned down sometime in the middle of the 
night, soon after Alann had gone to fetch the priest after all. The priest’s 
residence was on the other end of the village and he would probably show 
up only after it was light.
Percy sat at the table, watching them all, hearing Bethesia’s regular 
dying breath, until her thoughts clouded with weariness and she was 
hallucinating.
Or so she thought. Because the shadow of darkness seemed at times 
to move like vapor and then again be frozen in repose as a human figure, 
never looking at her or anyone else but the old woman, watching and 
waiting.
As the light outside deepened, there were harsh sounds of metal and 
many horses—heavy cavalry. The Duke’s knights were returning.
Niobea looked up once, slowly, her gaze drawn to the windows, but 
she did not go to open the shutters. This was an ongoing wake and death 
was in the house. Or so she thought.
Belle came awake with a start. Her first look was toward the old 
woman in the bed, but no need to ask—the labored breathing could be 
heard from across the room, dissonant solemn music. And so she moved 
and stood up, shivering, and then gently came to stand at Niobea’s side.
“Should I start the fire?” she whispered.
Niobea wordlessly nodded.
Outside in the street, under a silent dusting of snow, Duke Vitalio 
Goraque’s army continued their clanging march home.
Alann came back with the priest just before noon. Father Dibue was a 
large man with a craggy face, coarse ruddy skin, and a jutting chin. He 
wore his hood tight over his face and underneath there were many layers 
of grey shawl. His mittens were thick and barely worn, and his woven belt 
held a number of key rings and pouches.
“Ah, blessed Mother of God!” Niobea exclaimed at the sight of him. 
She quickly stood up, losing balance for a moment from having sat still all 
night long.
“Bless you, my daughter,” the priest replied in an automatic and 
habitual monotone. “Make room now,” he added, stepping forward to lean 
over the bed.
He stared in silence, punctuated only by the old woman’s breathing, 
then straightened and said, “Rejoice, Alann. Your good mother is not of 
this world much longer, and a finer place awaits her clean soul. She is 
fading even as we look upon her.”
Alann cleared his throat.
But it was Niobea who again spoke. “She’s been fading thus since 
last nightfall, Father, and it does not look like she will be taken into the 
Arms of the Lord any time soon.”
Father Dibue cleared his throat, wiped his forehead with the back of 
his hand, then began removing his coat and shawls and mittens. 
Underneath he wore the dark wool robes of the parish. Belle stepped up to 
receive his articles of clothing and hung them up carefully on pegs near 
their own.
“Sometimes,” Father Dibue said, “though everything is in the Lord’s 
Hands, undoubtedly, there’s the urgent need to administer the Holy 
Sacrament of the Last Rites. Otherwise, the humble servant of the Lord 
lingers, such as now, waiting for grace, for absolution.”
“Then proceed, Father, I beg you,” Alann said.
The priest nodded and reached for his bag.
Chapter 3
He was numb and cold as winter.
Ian Chidair, Duke Hoarfrost, had no blood inside of him. It had 
drained completely from his body by the time he walked up the sloping 
incline of the shore and stopped before his men.
The soldiers stood holding torches against the heavy blue twilight, 
some mounted, many on foot. His son, Beltain, sat on his warhorse.
They had grown silent, all of them. It was peculiar to observe the 
stricken expressions on those nearest, and the hastily concealed signs of 
the cross that swept across the ranks in pure animal reflex.
“Father? Are you my father? Are you . . . dead?” his son had asked 
him.
And Hoarfrost had to pause and think, his mind sluggish and devoid 
of emotion as though he resided in a waking dream.
“My . . . son. I don’t . . . know.” The words came with uncustomary 
difficulty, forced and hissing, because his chest was constricted somehow
—indeed, frozen like a side of meat.
Ian Chidair realized that he was not breathing and made a conscious 
effort to inhale, so that he could form words, so that he could speak. But as 
his chest expanded that first time, his lungs were burning, seemingly on 
fire, endlessly so, with . . . ice; they had stiffened in rigor mortis.
Or maybe it was the simple action of cold upon water. Each intake of 
air caused him to fight against a new crust of ice that filmed over the 
insides of his lungs, and each ballooning of the membranes was breaking 
that ice, over and over, so that there were permanent razor-shards inside 
him. . . .
Along with the everpresent ice there was pain. At first it was raging 
mortal agony, foremost in his mind. But then it too had grown numb in the 
cold—in particular when he was first submerged in the icy waters of the 
lake. He didn’t know cold could burn so. Cold burned with an inferno 
without end, and then it . . . receded. And thus pain became secondary, a 
constant sensation of remote horror that simply slipped in the back of his 
mind and lurked—for now.
Or, maybe pain was just a memory, and was not there at all.
Duke Hoarfrost pumped his chest in and out, or did something that 
caused a movement inside of him. Something; he was not sure what. He 
could hear the cold air swishing through the holes in his flesh, a soft hiss. 
It was almost curious to consider it, to listen. . . . Too bad he was so stiff, 
so cumbersome—he had never remembered being so peculiarly solid and 
heavy before, as though he was not made of meat but granite.
Am I dead? he thought, for the first time voluntarily, directly. But it 
was a lazy thought, a dreamlike passing thought with no emotion attached 
to it. And so he did not give it more than cursory attention, let it pass on 
into the void with other insignificant filaments of images and dream-
fragments.
As though he had mused out-loud, Beltain, his son, spoke.
“What has happened, father?” he whispered. It was unclear whether 
he was afraid to speak up in a full voice or if he was unable to do so from 
the shock.
“What has happened to me?” the Duke echoed. He listened not to 
Beltain but to his own words. Somehow he found it now easier to speak 
once again, to form words on the exhalation of breath, as though the 
practice of pumping his own lungs was merely an old rhythm he could 
reclaim so that it was again becoming a habit. Inhale, exhale, his 
mechanism was working like clockwork.
And then he shook himself like a dog with great sudden strength that 
was not inhuman but merely impossible, considering the condition of his 
body. And he sent bits of water and ice flying around him. He flexed his 
arms, stomped his feet, his torso covered in iron plate and wet tunic.
“Am . . . I . . . dead?” he said out-loud, practicing, as the air hissed 
out of his chest.
And suddenly there was an unexpected answer.
A man stepped forward stiffly, from among the ranks of his foot 
soldiers, and he said in an equally wooden, stone-cold voice. “My . . . 
Lord. You’re not the only one. I fear me, I’m dead too.”
He pulled off his damaged helmet and showed a head wound that 
could not belong to a man walking upright. Hair clotted with blood at the 
left side of his temple showed broken bits of skull and brains pouring out 
of him in rivulets, freezing against his bluish-white face.
There were groans and exclamations in the crowd.
Beltain pulled his warhorse up tight, for it started to snort and roll its 
eyes in terror.
And then, one after another, more men stepped forward. They 
removed hauberks and shirts, parted chest-plates, raised sleeves and lifted 
helmets. What was revealed could not be called a proper nightmare. For 
no human history had the words in any language to describe the carnage 
done to a body that is dead and ravaged and void of living fluids, missing 
limbs, with stilled organs and lack of movement, yet which continues 
supporting the living soul.
There were old legends, tales told to scare the young, of the blood-
drinking vurdulak and vampir, the God-forsaken undead who rested in 
their coffins during day but rose at night to walk the darkness in order to 
appease an unholy hunger. Other legends spoke of incorporeal ghosts, 
skeletal creatures that would not rest, of ghouls and shades and bodies 
possessed by demonic forces, of drowned maidens that devoured men, of 
hoary forest spirits that lurked below the roots of ancient trees and 
swallowed the living beneath ground.
Yet there was no mention of men who simply would not die, would 
not leave their mauled and broken bodies, no matter how terrible the 
damage was. Men who could not leave the trappings of flesh, meanwhile 
imbued with the ability to feel every bit of pain and think the same fallible 
thoughts—neither good nor evil, merely ordinary human.
And now, the scene on the bank of the lake was that of military 
disaster. Soldiers had all broken ranks at this point, the living shying away 
in terrified suspicion from those around them they deemed dead, when 
sometimes it were themselves. Men looked closely at those nearest them, 
at themselves, at their noble Lord and his son.
Some wept and embraced like brothers, forgetting mortal shame. For, 
in the torch-lit winter night, next to a field of recent battle, this was a time 
of intimacy. Tears came from what remaining fluids their poor broken 
bodies still held in reserve. Tears flowed and froze against cold dead skin
—for some, their last tears, for when their internal water was depleted the 
dead body would process no more. And they did not know it yet; if they 
did, would they save their tears?
Suddenly, in a loud rasping voice, Hoarfrost said, “Enough!” His 
timbre was different from the first attempts moments ago; it was now 
fixed in that new mode, as though the peculiar voice came as a result of 
turning machinery, hand-cranked gears. And it was once again strong and 
sure, as it had been when he was alive and cantankerous with passion.
In a steady inevitable motion, like ice transforming water, the tall, 
heavy-set man raised his massive hands above his head to signal for 
attention.
And then, turning his body still awkwardly to face his dazed son, he 
said: “My horse, Beltain. Bring me my horse. Now!”
There was a moment of pause, during which decisions were made 
that would change everything—or not.
“My . . . Lord,” Beltain replied, after a deep shuddering breath of 
winter air. “I know not what has come to pass here, with you, with all of 
them. But I am yours, and . . . I obey.”
With those words, Beltain turned to the knights at his side and gave 
the command. In moments the Duke’s great charger was brought forward. 
The noble war-beast had escaped the cracked fissure of ice earlier while its 
master had not been so lucky. And now the horse snorted in confusion, for 
it could smell nothing but fresh blood and brackish lake water from the 
man-shape of his former master that now stood before it. And when Duke 
Hoarfrost neared the horse and mounted, it neighed in sheer terror, but 
stood its ground. Even the weight of this rider was different, heavy as an 
anvil.
“Listen to me, my men!” exclaimed Hoarfrost, sitting in the saddle 
like a boulder. “Something terrible has come to pass this day, this night, to 
you, to myself, to all of us! If it’s Goraque sorcery, as I suspect, then—as 
God is my witness—I will find this sorcery and uproot it! Vitalio Goraque 
will pay for what he did this night!”
The soldiers cheered weakly, most still staggering barely on their 
feet.
“What’s this? Are you men or drunken wenches?” Hoarfrost roared 
in his usual command. “Dead or living be damned! Form rank, all of you! 
And we march home!”
And they complied, coming to attention, lining up in their proper 
order the best they could. Beltain took his cue, and so did the other captain 
knights. Under their orders the army started to come back together, despite 
everything. In fact this normalcy helped.
Yet while they picked themselves up, and cavalry then foot soldiers 
started to advance back inland away from the shore, torches flickering 
orange, there were still moans and hushed whispers. Quite a few men had 
to carry each other, due to severed body parts, torn off limbs, for there 
were no crutches for so many. Some of the most seriously dismembered 
had to be carried alongside their own heads; the heads looked on sadly, 
eyes unblinking, mute—for they were separated from the throat and larynx 
and the nerves severed—and yet, somehow, they were aware.
It was the stuff of nightmares.
Hoarfrost took his usual place at the lead of the cavalry vanguard, 
with Laurent his standard bearer at his left side, and Beltain on the other. 
There was uncustomary silence between them, indeed among all the ranks, 
punctuated only by creaking metal armor and footsteps crunching over the 
fresh powder of snow. They started to turn onto the road leading deeper 
into Chidair territory, heading North.
Just before they turned onto the deeply rutted stretch of roadway 
leading away from Lake Merlait, sounds of a mild commotion carried 
from the rear of the marching columns. Apparently a messenger was 
heading their way from the enemy’s side.
Within seconds, the messenger appeared, dressed in the red and gold 
colors of Goraque, galloping with a white banner aloft in one hand.
Hoarfrost signaled to stop their march and half-turned in the saddle to 
watch the new arrival. The Duke was without a helmet and his wet hair 
was completely frozen to his scalp in a wild bramble-tangle, with a light 
dusting of snow, while his skin was matte with a crystallized sheen. His 
eyes, gradually freezing in their sockets, had difficulty turning, so he 
simply turned his neck.
Beltain appeared not to look at his father directly, but threw 
occasional glances sideways at him.
The messenger was a young slip of a boy. Yellow-corn hair, a frost-
bitten face and pale eyes in the torchlight stared in wild desperation as he 
brought his horse up short, then bowed his head in greeting and delivered 
his message.
“The Duke Vitalio Goraque honorably requests a truce of the Duke 
Ian Chidair,” the boy said breathlessly. “Due to unknown circumstances 
and unknown terrible forces, a strange curse has come upon his men. This 
may be very hard to believe but no one on the Goraque side is able to die, 
not even the mortally wounded. My master the Lord Duke Goraque 
suspects sorcery or a curse, and swears upon his honor that he is willing to 
continue this conflict at some future date.”
“Harumph!” Duke Hoarfrost said, watching the messenger with 
unblinking dark eyes.
The boy blinked but that was the only indication he made of being 
terrified.
“So, tell me, young soldier, is it true, this crazy thing your Duke 
claims?” Hoarfrost continued.
The messenger gathered himself up proudly, and then said, “Yes, my 
Lord, it is all true!”
“And why should I believe you?”
“Because, my Lord, I see now that this curse has fallen not only upon 
Goraque, but upon your own men!” the messenger exclaimed. “As I rode 
here just now, past the army of Chidair, I saw it, my Lord. I saw 
everything. The dead march alongside the living. It is the exact same thing 
in our own ranks.”
“Hah!” Hoarfrost said. And then he turned his head fully and trained 
the intense look of his fixed dark eyes upon the boy.
“Look at me, soldier . . .” the Duke said. “What do you think? How 
do I look to you? Think you I can dance a cotillion or a gig? Well?”
Placed in a difficult situation that was getting worse by the minute, 
the young boy apparently decided, to hell with it. “I beg pardon, my 
Lord,” he said. “But—but I think you’re dead, M’Lord. You look blue and 
white with cold, like no living man but a corpse. And yet, dead though you 
might be, begging pardon and all, I think you could dance a fair swell gig, 
I would bet my shirt on it!”
In reply Duke Hoarfrost roared. At the first sound of his deep 
thunderous   voice   the   messenger   started,   shifting   in   his   saddle 
involuntarily. But the roar was laughter.
The Duke laughed and shook, like a Winter avalanche, ice clinking 
against armor plate. Finally he quieted, and nodded to the messenger. A 
difficult crooked smile remained on his face, but it was grim and edged 
with sorrow. “Well said, soldier boy, well said. Your honesty does you 
honor. I appear indeed to be a walking corpse, run through by another man 
who should’ve been dead—for I had killed him first, and had I not turned 
my back on him, my heart would be beating now. Maybe the Lord has 
decided to punish me in my moment of arrogance. But—never mind.” He 
paused. “And yet I am oddly glad to hear from you—all of this. Because I 
see now that this is not Goraque’s doing, none of it, but something greater 
than either of us. So, I agree to his offer. Tell him—we are under truce. 
Until we come to the bottom of this, all of it, the dark sorcery or curse of 
hell, we will set down our arms and return to our lands. Now, go, tell him 
my words. Oh, and be sure to tell him that I am dead. The Chidair corpse 
sends his greetings and his regards! What a wonder, eh? Now, go!”
And the Duke again began to laugh, starting out soft then harshly, his 
perforated body whistling with air.
The messenger nodded his head in a crisp salute, and turned his horse 
and galloped away to relay the message, quickly disappearing into the 
bluish-shadows and the sweeping line of the Chidair army in the direction 
of the lake.
Hoarfrost raised his gauntleted hand, stiff and creaking as a frozen 
haunch of meat, and the stalled army once more resumed movement.
They were heading North, home.
The Winter Palace of Lethe echoed with the death rattle of the old Queen 
Andrelise. All night it resounded, into the dawn hours and the following 
day. It filled the mind of Prince Roland Osenni and—he had no doubt—
the mind of his wife Lucia.
No matter what room he entered, Prince Roland could just hear it at 
the edge of his auditory sense, the endless breathing, in and out, as though 
an anvil lay upon his mother’s chest. The weight was pressing down, 
down, choking her, and yet she breathed. . . .
He could no longer be in that chamber of unending death.
Being there made him want to scream and do violence to her, to 
himself. Nor could he concentrate upon any other daily routine.
Instead he walked around the halls and corridors aimlessly, startling 
the Palace serving staff. Or else, after locking himself in his personal 
quarters for most of the waking hours, he paced like a caged beast back 
and forth along a narrow long stretch of room.
Princess Lucia shared two of his meals this day and they ate in grim 
silence, served by a cadre of impeccable servants who moved in such a 
funereal hush so that not even their trays clanked; nor silverware or bone 
china.
Finally, during supper, Roland could not stand it. He opened his 
mouth, but his wife preceded him.
“What—does Your Highness think?” Princess Lucia said, raising her 
gaze from the contemplation of a plate of sawdust-tasting soufflé before 
her. “Was that creature, that man-apparition in her chambers, really . . . 
Death?”
“Hell be damned if I know,” the Prince replied, watching his own 
plate of beautifully presented delicacy that tasted like dried straw. Was it 
soul-sickness and a trick of the senses, or had food indeed become 
unpalatable?
Her Highness might have dropped her patrician jaw at such language 
in the dining room at any other occasion. Today she merely observed him.
“I don’t know,” he repeated. “I only know this is interminable. And it 
sounds callous for a son to say such a thing, but I wish Her Majesty would 
pass along already. She is in agony, my mother is.”
“I agree.”
The Prince looked up. His wife was looking at him, and her eyes 
glistened, were full and dark with moisture, reflecting  the bright 
candlelight.
“There must be . . . something that can be done,” she continued.
The Prince frowned. “What do you suggest?”
“Oh no, God in Heaven, no!” Princess Lucia hurried to negate any 
notion of acts of a dark nature that her words might have planted. “I would 
never imply such a horror as you might think I mean, no. Indeed, how 
could Your Highness think I ever could? I love her as much as you, with 
all my heart—”
“Then what?”
The Princess took a deep breath so that her lace quivered around her 
décolletage. “Your Highness will not like it, I expect. But—I must say it. 
You must send for Grial. She is the only one who can help, give us 
guidance.”
Prince Roland put down his silverware with a clank. “I will not 
tolerate the endless chattering and malodorous concoctions of that witch! 
Not here, not ever again!”
“She’s not a witch! She saved your son, Your Highness. He would 
not have been born living, and you know it.”
“The priests at Holy Mass and my physicians saved my son!”
“No. Without Grial, he would never have passed out of my body 
safely. I would have been dead too.” The Princess’s expression began to 
take on a feverish intensity.
“Lucia . . .” he said at last, this time softly. “I do not want her here. I 
know you and everyone in this blessed world likes her, and it may be 
uncharitable of me, but—what she is, everything about her disturbs me. It 
is unnatural—unholy.”
“My beloved, it is merely very old. Please, I beg you. She is 
harmless, a truly good woman. Let her come and speak to us. You already 
have your priests reading the Mass, and surely the Lord in Heaven is 
magnanimous   enough   to   allow   a   genuinely   kind   woman’s   folk 
ministrations down here on earth alongside the holy prayers of his priests.”
There was a long pause of silence, during which Prince Roland could 
surely hear his mother’s agony-rattle twelve rooms away, drilling at his 
mind, his sanity. He could hear it resounding in the china and the polished 
stone of the floor.
“Well, then. Let her come tonight,” he said while ice settled in the 
back of his throat. “Only this once.”
Grial was shown into a small room of the Palace. She was a middle-aged 
townswoman with very lively dark eyes, dressed in what could easily be 
described as unwashed rags, with unruly and brittle witch-hair—ash and 
silver and black all intermingled into an uncombed mess barely contained 
by a knotted multicolored kerchief—so it was no wonder the Prince 
considered her an unholy sorceress from the forests. However Grial was 
merely from the depths of another sort—the narrow refuse-alleys and 
cobblestone streets and grimy filth of poverty.
Grial had prospered somewhat in the recent years from her unusual 
midwifery and healing skills, and not less from her even more uncanny 
ability to foretell events and interpret signs of things to come. But to admit 
need for such extreme services was not easy—most came to her in 
clandestine supplication, and she assisted with matters that were deemed 
beyond hopeless by the doctors and clergymen. Healing warts and easing 
women’s bleeding was rote; healing the mind and easing sorrow, now that 
was a real feat. They paid her well enough so that she could first open her 
own stall in the markets of Letheburg and then buy a storefront and put up 
a shingle—though she never seemed to manage a new dress or pair of clog 
shoes.
Anyone else in her position would have been driven out of town. But 
Grial was not the typical fortuneteller or herb-and-sorcery woman who 
spoke in cryptic omens, scowled, and kept to herself. Indeed, Grial was an 
oddity because, except for her dandelion mess of hair and infernally grimy 
clothes, she was so normal—a cheerful and sociable personality, a gossip, 
and seeming to be in all places at once over town, friendly to everyone and 
with an impossible memory for human detail. Wherever you turned in 
Letheburg, there was Grial, in the markets, sticking her nose into bake and 
tobacco shops and taverns and arguing with the old and young men who 
lined up around alehouses, chatting up priests and merchants, waving in 
good cheer to whores and fine matrons alike whether they knew her or not, 
and acting in general as if all of the city was a tiny village of no more than 
ten folk and she knew them all as good neighbors.
Such was Grial. So, why then did the Crown Prince of Lethe find her 
so unpalatable, nay, terrifying?
The answer lay in himself. Roland Osenni did not trust things or 
people that seemed too good to be true. When Grial saved the life of his 
newborn son, he was grateful as any man would be and paid her 
handsomely as only a prince could. And yet, he had never forgotten the 
intense look of her dark eyes as she watched the mother and the child 
lying abed after the difficult birth. He remembered it because he did not 
understand it, was unsure what was underlying her expression. In that 
moment her eyes were so dark, so other, it seemed to him, despite her 
warm true smile. They roiled with deep shadows of the forest and old 
things lurking just underneath the surface. Later, when he considered what 
it was that he saw, he realized it was power, surging, barely contained.
Power that should not have been.
That was so many years ago. And now. . . .
When Prince Roland and Princess Lucia entered the room, Grial rose 
hastily enough to be respectful, yet Roland thought he saw a shadow of 
mockery in her movements, in the very slant of her back as she bowed 
before them and the posture of her wiry tall frame as she stood up.
Grial was not an old woman. Or, at least she appeared not to be. 
Despite having been around for as long as he could remember, she was 
ageless or stuck in the ripe middle years, with a rather supple figure and 
smooth albeit dirt-mottled skin of her face and throat. Her face could be 
called attractive (if he could forget the power surging behind the surface of 
those eyes). Her hair—he simply could not understand how it could be so 
frizzy, so unkempt, as though she knew nothing of a comb. Thank 
goodness she kept it covered, more or less.
“Grial!” Princess Lucia exclaimed, jolting the Prince out of his 
unsavory ruminations. The Princess approached the townswoman with 
sincere joy and took her grimy thin hands in her bejeweled own. “My 
heart is gladdened to see you, Grial!”
“And mine leaps in my chest, much like a wee baby deer, Your 
Highness,” Grial replied. Her voice was deep and sonorous. “And 
speaking of wee babies, how is the young Prince John-Meryl doing? What 
is he, seven years and ten months and four days now, Highness?”
“Oh, he is a fine and sturdy young fellow, yes, but how did you 
remember?” Lucia smiled fondly and in amazement.
“Indeed . . .” Prince Roland spoke for the first time.
Grial turned to face him. “Now, how could I forget that child?”
True enough, the Prince thought, slightly mollified. She would not 
forget assisting a royal birth.
“A child with such squinty but fine pale blue eyes when you could 
see them open and with silvery specks, and cheeks with four dimples no 
less, and that ruddy newborn skin with just a smidgen of jaundice around 
the neck and forehead which cleared up fast, all things be praised!”
Prince Roland felt a wave of cold fear wash over him, returning. . . .
“But I carry  on so, forgive me,  a doddering  magpie,  Your 
Highnesses,” Grial said with a faint smile. “Your son’s a precious angel to 
dwell upon, but I know you have something else to discuss here, and that’s 
why you called me over, not to hear my pretty voice, eh? So, out with it!”
No one else but Grial would have the crazed cheerful audacity to 
speak so to the liege Lord and Heir of the Kingdom. And no one else 
would get away with it.
Princess Lucia looked at her husband, and joy once more slid off her 
face, replaced by chronic anxiety. It was as though she was wondering 
which one of them should begin.
“It is Her Majesty, the Queen Andrelise,” he said, beginning to pace. 
“She is . . . my mother is dying.”
“Ah . . .” said Grial.
“The point of the matter is,” Princess Lucia said, taking a few 
anxious steps also, “she has been the same for more than a day now, the 
same unchanging state of severe near-death. I’ve never in my life seen 
anyone like that—someone who was so ill, so far gone, and yet who is 
still . . . here, in the world of the living.”
“Last night,” the Prince said, “there was a man here. No—not a man. 
A being. He was dark, all dark. Empty, like a void. And he appeared out of 
nowhere in Her Majesty’s bedchamber, just at the moment when she 
appeared to be going at last. But there was no sense of wickedness 
emanating from him, no deviltry. It seemed he was merely—not there.”
“He spoke . . .” said Lucia.
“Yes, yes,” Grial interrupted suddenly. “Death was asking for his 
Cobweb Bride. I know all about that.”
“How did you—” began the Prince.
“Oh, it’s all over the markets and the streets,” Grial said with a 
chuckle. For some reason such an ordinary thing as a chuckle seemed to 
lighten considerably the psychic thundercloud that had come to press upon 
them at the memory of the dark being of the night before.
“It seems, some guard or servant talked to their cousin or sister or 
two . . . or three. And now everybody’s talking about what happened in the 
Palace, Your Highnesses. Everyone’s wondering whether it’s really Death 
that he was, or merely a bad scary dream that somehow happened to a 
crowd of tired people gathered ’round a deathbed.”
“It wasn’t a dream,” the Prince said coldly.
“Oh, there’s no doubt it was real,” Grial said.
“So then . . . you think he really was there? Death was there in the 
mortal flesh?” Lucia said.
“Who else? Not the Headless Horseman, that’s for sure.” Grial 
snorted. She rubbed her nose with the back of one hand, then rubbed her 
palms together, and finished the gesture by wiping them on the apron front 
of her dirt-covered dress.
“Then what do you suggest we do?” the Prince said, watching her 
movements with distaste and irritation. “We have no understanding of his 
demands. I’ve asked my advisors, consulted with the archbishop himself. 
Who or what is this Cobweb Bride? Where is she? How do we satisfy 
him? And is it indeed true that he, Death, has somehow suspended the 
natural act of dying of Her Majesty?”
Grial arched one dark brow and craned her head to the side so that 
her mane of frizzy hair spilled forward along one shoulder. Still craning 
her head she raised a hand and suddenly pointed a finger at the ceiling. 
“What’s that?” she said.
The Prince and Princess followed her finger and craned their necks to 
stare up at some gilded frieze work and ornate crown molding near the 
ceiling. “Where? What?” they both asked.
“That’s what I mean,” Grial said with a satisfied smile and dropped 
her hand.
The Prince and his royal consort stared at her in complete confusion.
“I know as much as all that,” replied Grial. “My point is, Your 
Highnesses, you can only comply with what Death seems to be demanding 
from you—indeed, from the whole world—in plain speech. He says he 
wants a Cobweb Bride. So, you must do all within your power to give him 
one.”
She paused, watching them meaningfully. “Think, what is within 
your power? Why, the ability to command your subjects. So, command 
away. Tell them all that Death wants a Cobweb Bride. Tell them that, 
since obviously a Bride is a woman, and as a common rule rather young, 
then all the young women of the Kingdom need to pay heed. Now, Death 
mentioned something about a Keep in the Northern Forests, didn’t he?”
“Why, yes, I believe he did!” Princess Lucia exclaimed.
“Well then, so we have at least that much. Death’s a gentleman, and 
indeed, since he takes all of us and all of what is ours in the end, he must 
have amassed quite a fortune—enough to buy a Keep or ten, not to 
mention a castle or a city or a whole realm, or all of them. Thus, we know 
where the Cobweb Bride must end up, after all is said and done. To the 
Keep she goes, lucky girl—well, not so much lucky, but you know what I 
mean,” Grial said.
“Yes, I follow you . . .” said the Prince pensively.
“Don’t follow me, follow this track of thought, Your Highness,” 
Grial said. “And so, the next thing you must command of your people is 
that the young women—the ones who are willing, that is, for you are not 
one of those foreign despot beasts to insist things be done against the 
better will of their loyal subjects—those willing young women must all 
congregate to the Northern Forests and search for the Keep, so as to 
present themselves before the Deathly Gentleman as potential Brides.”
Grial smiled brightly and again started rubbing palms against the 
apron and the front of her dress, which probably explained why it was 
indeed so dirty and grease-stained.
“A fair solution, Grial,” Princess Lucia said softly. “But I am a little 
confused as to how any woman might be willing to do such a thing. . . . To 
go and face Death! For, whatever else could it entail, this being a Cobweb 
Bride, but being dead? Whoever would be convinced to willingly go to her 
death?”
“And a fair question you raise, Your Highness,” responded Grial. 
“The solution seems to be already at hand, and it’s Death’s own doing. No 
one can die. Neither Her Majesty the old dear, nor any soldier, nor beggar, 
nor anyone. And some desperately need to be dead, as you can see. 
Because to be dead is not such a bad thing when it is your time to be dead, 
to be relieved of pain and suffering. And so, there must be plenty of loving 
and kind-hearted young women in the Realm, who are willing to do this 
thing to help out those who are in need, those whom they dearly love.”
“But that’s not being willing!” Princess Lucia said. “How can you 
call that willing? It is a sacrifice of oneself.”
“And indeed it is. But it does require a will and a choice and a 
decision to proceed . . . does it not, Highness?”
“Enough,” said the Prince suddenly. “I have decided. I know what 
must be done, and no, I am not a despot, but I do command my subjects.”
He looked at the humble yet not so humble woman before him. “I 
didn’t expect you to be of any use to me in this, but of all the others you 
alone gave me the reasoning I needed.”
“I am so glad!” Princess Lucia said, looking at her husband, then 
clasping her hands together in an odd combination of chronic neurosis and 
relief. “We must of course reward this good woman, do you not think, my 
dear—”
But Prince Roland Osenni was looking at the strange one, the wild 
witch with brittle hair and intense dark eyes that saw through him and to 
the other side. She, unlike everything else in this Realm, it seemed to him, 
looked in that moment so much alive.
Percy watched in silence, huddled in a corner of the room farthest from 
her grandmother’s bedside, as the Last Rites were administered, prayers 
spoken, and the priest packed up and left in a hurry, carrying in his purse 
the added weight of Alann Ayren’s few coins in payment.
Father Dibue had been called away and his services were now 
required by several others in the village. It had always been thus, it 
seemed; the priest never lingered overlong in their poor household.
“She shouldn’t be long now, my son,” Father Dibue had said to 
Alann gently, as he headed out the door. “I will pray for her soul and for 
this house, you may be sure, tonight, and on the morrow. Now, be sure to 
let me know when her time comes. . . .”
“Yes,” Alann had replied in a wooden voice. He knew it was futile to 
point out to Father Dibue that nothing seemed to have changed. The priest 
was gone soon enough, and at least they’ve had the Last Rites for Bethesia
—as though that merely involved packing a reticule for a long trip, and 
she was all ready to embark.
It was late afternoon, and after a brief meal of bread and onion barley 
pottage—the usual winter swill that no one seemed to properly taste, today 
in particular—the vigil continued.
Niobea rose in silence from her seat at the table and immediately 
returned to the old woman’s bedside, while Patty and Belle proceeded to 
clear the dishes and Percy carried the blackened pot with the remaining 
pottage back over to the fire.
Occasionally, past the grating sound of Bethesia’s harsh breathing, 
they could hear their neighbors outside. And now and then Alann, sitting 
in his chair, raised his head to stare at the closed shutters when their voices 
carried too loudly.
At one point, there were particularly loud squeals and then female 
screams coming from about three or four houses down. The squeals and 
screams continued for long moments, piercing to the ear and bizarre, until 
other noises came to the fore—those of closer neighbors opening their 
doors—and of course there was the deep bass of old uncle Roald from 
across the street as he roared “Blessed Saints in Heaven! What’s going 
on?” 
Alann got up, his expression troubled. “That’s Mistress Marie 
Doneil’s daughter, I think? She’s got a squeaky voice. She must be hurt.”
Sitting near the stove Belle furrowed her brow and said, “Pa, I don’t 
think that’s Jenna Doneil. May the Lord forgive me, but it sounds like a 
real pig squealing. They’ve got two as of last month.”
“That’s right,” said Patty. “I’m sure that’s a pig voice, Pa. Though, 
Jenna could be a pig too, when she’s in a fierce mean mood—”
“Hush!” Niobea interrupted. “Don’t be rude, child, not now, not 
before your grandmother.”
But the screams, squeals, and general mayhem outside on the street 
continued.
“I’d best go look,” Alann said. “Maybe someone really is hurt and 
they need help.”
“I’ll go with you, Pa?” Percy said softly. Her tone of voice was 
tentative, as though she were afraid of her father’s reaction. What if he 
said no, rebuffed her now?
But Alann looked at her and nodded.
And so Percy and her father dressed in overcoats and wrapped 
themselves against the cold and went outside into the grey-white daylight 
of early evening.
The sky was slate, slowly going dark blue. There was no rough wind, 
only light snowfall, and yet, a peculiar menacing chill filled the cold air. 
Their footsteps crunched on the frozen ground over freshly fallen powder 
that managed to obscure the deep ruts made by army carts and heavy 
footprints of soldiers and hooves of cavalry horses that had passed here 
early in the morning.
Alann, with Percy in tow, joined a couple of neighbors as they were 
heading around the street bend.
“Good evening, Mister Ayren!” said a tall bundled man.
“Same to you, Mister Jaquard. Any notion what’s happening over at 
the Doneil house?”
“No idea, but it sounds bad.”
As they walked, the screams came stronger. Percy shuddered from 
the strange rending sensation she got every time the high-pitched squeal 
sounded. Someone was in agony. . . .
The Doneil house was a narrow two-story, with the bottom being the 
livestock room, while the family lived upstairs. They were a somewhat 
odd lot, the Doneils. There were always underfed chickens running around 
in their low-enclosed front yard, and often a sheep or goat pair or other 
livestock boarded inside, for lack of a barn. The Doneils sold eggs and 
tanned leather and sometimes, when there was a cow, they were the local 
dairy shop.
A small crowd of neighbors had gathered in front of the house, and 
there was animated talk, much gesticulation and several people making 
sings of the cross, while the screaming inside continued.
As Alann approached the closest one to ask, young Faith Groaden, 
who stood near her father began to cry, sobbing uncontrollably. “Poor 
pig!” she managed to get out, in-between shuddering sobs.
“Butchering didn’t go too well,” the neighbor from the crowd said to 
Alann. “Really strange, if you ask me, but that’s the pig squealing. Been 
squealing like that for a long time. Wouldn’t stop! We got here, and the 
Doneil girl came out, and she was all a mess, crying and stuttering. I say 
she’s daft, but she says the pig’s been cut, but it’s refusing to die. Her old 
man did the butchering and supposedly he’s still in there. Doing God 
knows what to that pig. Taking a horrible long time, if you ask me.”
In that moment a girl in a kerchief and woolen house-dress came 
running out of the front door of the Doneil house—the daughter, of no 
more than twelve years. Her face was contorted and red from weeping, 
covered with tears and snot and a general mess, and her sleeves were 
pulled up to her elbows, heedless of the cold, while she clutched her hands 
and wrung them, then beat her fists against her sides and periodically bent 
and straightened her knees as though straining to jump out of her own 
skin. Her apron was red and blood-splattered since she usually assisted her 
father. As she came out, Jenna Doneil started screaming again, shrill and 
insane, at the top of her voice.
“It ain’t dying! It ain’t! Oh God, Our Father, it ain’t!”
“Argh! Dammit! Get back in here, girl!” From the inside a male voice 
roared. Nicholas Doneil could be heard banging inside, heavy dull thuds 
against wood and metal, the sound of crashing, while the infernal 
squealing continued.
“Are you all right in there, Nick?” a neighbor yelled. “Need some 
help?”
“Damned pig! Cursed beast! Won’t shut up!” Nick replied. His voice 
was gruff and it was obvious that something was wrong indeed. Nick 
Doneil was usually a quiet solid man, did his butchering cleanly—if such 
a thing could be said—and yet never had he sounded so out of control as 
he did now.
Jenna Doneil wailed in reply, getting down on her knees and 
pounding her fists against the ground. There were smudges of pink where 
her blood-stained fingers touched the snow. “No, Pa! Please, no! No more, 
Pa! It ain’t dying, no! Don’t hurt it no more!”
“Shut up, idiot girl!” her father roared again. “Stay out and let me 
finish this!”
“I’m coming in, Nick,” again said the neighbor. But those standing 
closest put a hand on his sleeve to stop him, making silent “no” gestures.
Inside the house there was a heavy thud sound, as though a huge 
object was thrown.
The squealing suddenly stopped. “There!” Nick yelled triumphantly. 
“Bashed its head in, that should do it. Got no face now, pig. No face, no 
mouth to squeal, you stubborn damned beast.”
Jenna was still whimpering, panting and wiping snot from her cheeks. 
Shuddering, she turned her head to stare at the doorway of their house.
And then from the inside came another grunt and a loud stream of 
curses from Nick. “What the devil? Why are you still standing?” he was 
screaming. “What in all the unholy hell? Die, you goddamned—”
“Someone get the priest,” a woman neighbor muttered. She leaned 
forward to raise Jenna up and embrace her, leading her away from the 
front door. “Where’s your mother, child?” the woman asked. “Is Marie 
hiding as usual, upstairs when the butchering’s happening?”
“Yes, Ma’am . . .” Jenna sniffled.
“Well, I don’t blame her,” the woman said. “Don’t blame her one 
whit. And you should be up there with her. Your Pa shouldn’t force you to 
do the bloody work with him.”
“I don’t like it, Ma’am . . .” Jenna whispered.
In that moment there was a shadow at the doorway and Nicholas 
Doneil slowly came out of his house and just stopped. He seemed to 
stagger once, and his hands hung limp at his sides, powerless like rag-
stuffed sleeves of a scarecrow. He was covered in blood up to his elbows, 
and all of his apron was red. His face, in contrast, except for the splattered 
droplets, was pale and drawn.
Everyone froze in silence and turned to stare.
“It won’t die . . .” he whispered. Then, louder, “Pig . . . It won’t die!”
Signs of the cross travelled the crowd in waves.
Alann’s strong hand reached to clasp Percy’s small frozen one. It was 
shaking.
Things got worse as the evening wore on. Father Dibue was having a 
particularly hard time of it. By the time he got to the front yard of the 
Doneils’ place, he was hunched over, and he’d seemed to have lost or 
forgotten his shawls somewhere, so that his woolen hood slipped down 
constantly, revealing his scraggly head. He carried his bag with him as an 
afterthought.
It turns out he’d just come from the bedside of a boy who’d been 
stabbed in multiple places on his body, in a brawl. They were mortal 
wounds, and there was nothing the holy priest could do but speak his 
prayers and watch the blood pour out despite the bandages set by the old 
local doctor.
Except that, when the blood was all out of him, and the heart fluttered 
and stopped, the boy still lived. He lay, pale and cold, watching the priest 
and the doctor and his family gathered all around him—watching them 
with frightened, occasionally blinking eyes.
So now, Father Dibue, having said the Last Rites, and then having 
said all the prayers in his arsenal, with the family kneeling at his side, had 
to admit there was nothing more that he or anyone could do. It was in the 
Lord’s hands now.
When he got to the Doneil’s house, he was tired. Soul-sick and weary 
and, possibly for the first time in his life, frightened. The face of that boy 
just wouldn’t leave him—those pain-darkened eyes, the anemic skin, 
completely bloodless, the silence of a stopped heart! The boy lay there, 
surrounded by sobbing kinfolk, and when he’d turned to go, the boy was 
getting ready to sit up. . . .
This had to be deviltry. Something terrible was in the air.
Father Dibue stared at the sizeable crowd of village folk that had 
gathered in front of the Doneils’ place in the thickening twilight, and it did 
not bode well, not at all. The muttering and the hushed talk, and the 
signing of the cross going on, and several women and children crying.
Just as he approached the small picket gate, there was a loud 
commotion sound from behind him. And as Father Dibue turned to stare, 
there were torches and riders in the distance, coming down the bend of the 
road from the east and south.
“Father Dibue! May the Lord be praised, you are here! There’s 
unholy goings-on!” someone cried from the crowd in front of the house, 
noticing him, but then everyone was staring at the approaching lights and 
sound.
Down the road came five riders. Four of them carried torches, and by 
their flickering orange illumination that dispelled the twilight, it could be 
seen they were wearing the Royal livery of Lethe. The fifth one wore the 
livery and the additional cape of a Royal Herald.
What in the world was a Herald doing, riding out in the cold dark, so 
late in the evening? Usually the Royal Proclamations were made on the 
morrow, and hardly ever past noon, so that the Heralds had time to make 
the rounds of the countryside and return before dark. This must have been 
something urgent indeed.
And why so many guards for one Herald? These were difficult times, 
true, with the ever-present threat of a major foreign war and many smaller 
internal skirmishes going on, such as the Goraque and Chidair matter, all 
of which made the roads generally unsafe—but four guards? 
The riders came to a hard stop seeing the smallish crowd in front of 
the Doneils’ place. Both horses and men were panting from exertion. 
“What village or town? Is this Oarclaven?” the Herald cried in a ringing 
voice, gathering his powerful breath.
“Aye, it is,” the crowd answered with many voices.
“Hear Ye, O People of Oarclaven in the Kingdom of Lethe!” he 
began reciting the usual preamble to the news. “It is a Matter most Serious 
and Grave, directly from His Royal Highness, Roland Osenni, the Crown 
Prince of Lethe, speaking on behalf of Her Majesty the Queen Andrelise 
Osenni of Lethe.
“A Royal Order and Decree is as follows.” He unrolled a parchment 
scroll and the Royal Guards closest to him drew their torches nearer for 
better illumination. The Herald cleared his throat and began to read. 
“Death has stopped! There is no more death! No more dying! No relief 
from pain for us mortals—woe to us! Death refuses to do his work until he 
is given his Cobweb Bride. If you know of such a Bride, or if you are She 
in the Flesh, you are ordered to comply immediately with Death’s wishes 
and attend him in his Keep in the Northern Forests—do so for your Queen 
and Country!
“As for you, People of Lethe, if you have daughters of marriageable 
age, you have the chance to be greatly rewarded and honored. At least one 
of your daughters must choose, on behalf of Queen and Country to give 
herself up as a possible Cobweb Bride of Death, and must travel 
immediately to the Northern Forests in search of Death’s Keep. Daughters 
of Lethe, heed this Decree! If you are chosen by Death, your family will 
be honored and rewarded with a thousand Lirae, a Noble Title, and a fair 
parcel of land. You, Cobweb Bride, will be remembered as a Heroine of 
Lethe! This is effective immediately, bearing the Royal Seal of the 
Kingdom of Lethe in the Greater Imperial Realm.”
The Herald went silent and began rolling the parchment back 
together.
As he completed his task, the gathered crowd murmured and 
whispered in half-voices. The Decree was insane. It raised more questions 
than provided answers. But before any of their voices became louder and 
more belligerent, the Herald signaled to his guard, and two men drove on 
forward, then his own horse, followed by the two guards to bring up the 
rear. Without another word they thundered north and then again eastward 
along the curving road, on their way to the next nearest town of Tussecan, 
still in Goraque lands.
For one long moment Father Dibue stood petrified. He then pulled at 
the heavy chain hanging on his chest and the great cross, straightening it. 
And then he lowered himself, kneeling in the snow. Head inclined, he 
recited the Lord’s Prayer out-loud, and one by one those of the villagers 
who noticed him, also knelt, until the street was filled with folk in prayer.
A few feet away, Alann came down on the cold snow, on his knees, 
making a grunt of pain, because his right foot and knee were bothering 
him as they had been since last year when he took a hard fall in the 
slippery muck of their barn. The thickly bundled smaller shape of Percy 
huddled at his side.
Percy shivered as she knelt next to her father. She appeared to be in 
prayer as everyone else, head lowered, arms folded, but inside there was 
silence and strange glimmerings of thoughts. . . .
Father Dibue finished leading the prayer, then rose heavily, everyone 
else following.
“What is to be done, Father? What does this mean?” everyone was 
asking, crowding around the priest.
“Who is this Cobweb Bride?” 
“What does it mean that Death has stopped?”
“Well, it’s just as that Doneil pig wouldn’t die!” a man exclaimed 
suddenly. “Well, that explains it!”
“But what is it? Is it a curse?” several women asked.
Father Dibue raised his arms for silence. “The Lord only knows what 
is happening, in truth, my children,” he said. “But in my great sorrow I 
must admit I’m not surprised by the Royal Decree of Lethe. What I’ve 
seen today with my own eyes was impossible. As I walked here, I was 
even then unsure how to think of it, how to explain it to myself. But now 
things are somewhat clearer. Take my word that I have seen men who 
should be dead and are not. Men with deadly wounds and broken bodies. 
It is unholy and terrifying and we must do all that we can to obey the 
Order.
“Do not try to spare your daughters, or to conceal them, for in doing 
so you will only be prolonging this hell on earth for all of us, indeed, for 
our immortal souls! If Death will not take us, then neither will the Lord! 
Our souls are doomed to remain here instead of finding solace in the 
Heavenly Realm in His bosom and under His wing!”
There was much commotion in response. Several women and not a 
few men began to weep, and children were sniffling.
“No!” one young girl suddenly cried out—almost a woman, and 
obviously of an age to marry. “Oh, father, mother, I beg you, I cannot go, 
no, I cannot! I don’t want to die, oh, I beg you!”
“No! Oh, please, no!” another young woman exclaimed, and Percy 
recognized Bettie, a pretty girl from several houses down, only a year 
older than her, as she was consoled and held back by her two burly 
brothers.
The street erupted into chaos. In the twilight, screaming young 
women were seen scattering around the street, some held or pulled along 
by their mothers, and others being embraced.
A torch or two came to life, and in the flickering light the terrified 
faces of all were revealed, familiar faces blue with cold, smeared by 
weeping—men, women and children.
“Percy!” her father exclaimed, pulling her by the hand. In the flash of 
torchlight, Percy noticed, from what could be seen of his bundled face, his 
expression was grim and tragic, his eyes dark and bottomless, and she did 
not know what it meant.
In silence they quickly ran down the street toward home.
Chapter 4
The Infanta, Claere Liguon, sat motionless before a great window in her 
Imperial bedchamber. She was straight-backed and her shallow chest did 
not rise with breath. She still wore the magnificent birthday crinoline dress 
of white and the crowned wig of silver thread and pearl and diamond, 
though the front of her dress was stained deep crimson that was slowly 
drying and turning black—she would not allow them to remove it—and 
her skin was the color of the grey sky outside.
Indeed, after the initial mad scuffle by the doctors to get her to a 
bedchamber, she resisted all help. She had allowed no one to touch her 
and instead stayed for several interminable horrifying hours in the Silver 
Hall, pacing before the table laden with Gifts from the Court. As she 
moved back and forth, occasionally putting her cold sticky fingers—what 
was it that made them so sticky?—on the shining objects, a slick trail of 
her own coagulating blood formed on the shining parquet floor, and her 
delicate slippers were soaked. She had trailed the blood here from the 
place near the center of the hall where the silver chair still stood, the spot 
where she had been stabbed. In that spot on the floor was a large 
thickening crimson-black puddle that no one dared to clean up.
After about an hour of watching her, watching the impossible 
spectacle before them, the petrified courtiers slowly regained a measure of 
something, if not sanity, and started to slip away one by one. The Emperor 
and Empress sat on their Thrones like two sacks—boneless, powerless, 
devoid of will and ability to think—from the shock. As the Hall emptied, 
except for the most essential attendants, they continued to sit, long past 
midnight, while the candles in the hall smoked, sputtered, and burned 
down. In only an hour or two, it was to be dawn. . . .
Eventually, as the nature of the dark in the windows started to change 
and the Silver Hall took on a hue befitting its name, the Infanta stopped 
pacing and pronounced that she wanted to be taken back to her quarters.
As she passed the Imperial Thrones, she curtsied before her 
devastated parents and then continued, as though this was but another 
ordinary audience. The grand doors were opened before her; she was 
gone. And yet they sat, Emperor and Empress, as the sky outside bloomed 
and the light filled the windows. They could not move—not yet, not 
ever. . . .
And now, here she was, in her bedchamber. Despite the early hour, 
an army of Ladies-in-Attendance, surgeons, priests, and other Imperial 
serving staff hovered around her in futility.
The Infanta’s great smoky eyes were trained outside the window, 
looking somewhere beyond the delicate curtain of snowflakes that 
obscured the morning world with winter lace. Her hands were folded 
delicately in her lap, and for the first time ever she looked at peace, like a 
subject of a grand painting, stilled in an evocative pose for the ages, to be 
viewed and admired by future generations.
Now, of course, there would be no future generations stemming 
directly from her. In the unlikely event that the Emperor and Empress 
produced more children, there might be cousins who would one day in the 
distant future find a yellowing portrait of the Infanta dressed in splendid 
white, with a crown upon a silver powdered wig, archaic in its splendor, 
and eyes of dark receptivity in a pinched grey face. She would be frozen 
thus for eternity, for as things were now, Claere Liguon was never again to 
grow or age, or indeed change. . . .
It is possible that these and other thoughts tumbled through 
everyone’s mind in those long excruciating hours of early dawn and 
morning. Lady Milagra Rinon, bearing the honor of First Lady-in-
Attendance to the Grand Princess, stood trembling in her fulfillment of the 
task of Attendance, only a few steps away from the chair in which the 
Infanta now sat.
Lady Milagra’s long-fingered hands were clutched together in a 
bloodless grip of terror, so as not to fidget upon the front of her plum-
colored brocade dress or, God forbid, to call any attention upon herself 
now. And yet, oh, how she needed to be called upon to do something! 
Soft-spoken, with lovely unblemished skin of a deep olive hue and rich 
black hair underneath the platinum wig, Lady Milagra was a daughter of a 
fine noble house from the southern regions of the Realm, in Morphaea, 
where her family held lands very close to the border with Balmue. When 
the Emperor decided to honor her father the Marquis Rinon, one of the 
privileges granted was the acceptance of Lady Milagra into Attendance at 
the Silver Court. It might have seemed an odd choice considering how 
exquisitely beautiful and stately she was, and how much of a chance 
existed for her to outshine the bland Infanta. But Lady Milagra proved 
herself to be very loyal, self-effacing, and the perfect companion for her 
Imperial charge.
When the Infanta was attacked by the villain the night before, Lady 
Milagra was in the crowd of guests, and she had seen it all, screamed and 
wept along with most of those present and recognized the reality of the 
mortal blow. That her Princess walked and lived now, was a terrifying and 
incomprehensible thing. Lady Milagra had not been to bed that night, and 
the slow cold and shaking and shivering had overtaken her long before 
dawn when she finally followed the Infanta and her retinue into her 
chambers. And now, still wearing her ball dress, having had not a drop of 
food or drink or a moment to relieve herself, her face smudged and 
exhausted, she stood on her last reserves. Nothing was to be done while 
she was in Attendance—she could neither be excused nor ask to be 
excused, nor be noticed without the Infanta’s initiative.
And the Infanta was dead. Though she occupied a chair and looked 
out the window, it appeared more and more that she would never make 
another request of her again. Thus, Lady Milagra prayed in silence for 
strength, for something, anything to happen, to deliver her and the rest of 
the Ladies-in-Attendance.
The other four Ladies Attending were also present—the red-headed 
and tiny Lady Floricca Grati of Styx, the blonde Lady Selene Jenevais of 
Lethe, the voluptuous and dark Lady Liana Crusait of Morphaea, and the 
youngest, Lady Alis Denear, also of Lethe. They all huddled together as a 
group, agonized and more frightened than they had ever been in their 
lives, only making desperate eye contact with each other and the others 
present in the chamber. Their usual tasks and duty would have been 
completed for the night many hours ago, and they would all have been in 
their beds asleep.
“Your Royal Highness,” Doctor Belquar, the Imperial head physician 
was saying to the Infanta. “If I might only inquire as to how Your 
Highness is feeling? Is there . . . pain, by any chance?”
The balding middle-aged physician’s voice was pitched in a peculiar 
high register, deferential and far softer than it had been with any of his 
other fine patients, even the Emperor himself. Indeed, how did one speak 
to a patient who was not supposed to be alive? A patient who was drained 
of the blood humour and stabbed in the heart—which was now stilled and 
probably as cold as the air in room. . . .
The Infanta’s head did not turn, and she continued to stare out of the 
window, unblinking. However, she replied politely, first making a peculiar 
effort to expand her chest, so as to inflate her motionless lungs in order to 
exhale air upon which words would be formed.
“No pain.”
The doctor watched in horror coupled with professional curiosity the 
physics, nay, mechanics of her speech-making. For it was as though a 
mechanism was engaged, like that of an artfully created doll, for her to 
recreate the living act of breathing and speaking.
She had been thus for hours. All questions were answered in short 
easy phrases after some noticeable delay. And she never looked away 
from the window.
“It is wonderful that your Highness is not in discomfort, but maybe a 
glass of water or some hot tea would be helpful for the physique—”
Again that mechanical ballooning of the chest, the intake of breath, 
and she replied, “No, thank you. I am not thirsty.”
Doctor Belquar looked behind him with frustration and made eye 
contact with a colleague, Doctor Hartel, a young brown-haired assistant 
and, in a manner of speaking, his professional rival.
“A hot bath with salts . . .” whispered Doctor Hartel.
But Doctor Belquar shook his head negatively.
“Perhaps, a light application of leeches. . . .”
“Are you out of your mind?” Doctor Belquar hissed. “The royal 
patient . . . has no blood, would you bleed her more. . . ?”
A few steps away, a breakfast service had been brought in, and it lay 
untouched upon the small table. The servants stood at attention, most of 
them looking directly ahead of themselves, so as not to be found staring at 
Her Royal Highness.
The great canopied bed of the Infanta was also untouched. The 
feather pillows had been plumped and stacked, and velvet coverlets had 
been turned down for the night. But when she was offered a chance to lie 
down, the Infanta refused, most vehemently of all—if shaking her head 
back and forth and saying “no” over and over in a monotone could be 
considered passion.
In the opposite far corner of the grand bedchamber stood two bishops 
and a host of priestly attendants. There was a non-stop soft hum of spoken 
prayer and wafting incense, but because the physicians had been given 
supreme authority in the matter, the on-going Mass was relegated to the 
back, so as not to disturb the unpredictable and precarious condition of the 
Infanta.
At about eleven o’clock in the morning, the Empress Justinia was 
announced, at the same time as she unceremoniously walked into the 
room, forgetting or discounting all Imperial protocol. The Empress had 
changed out of her eye-blinding splendor of the night before and wore a 
simpler gown of warm cream and pearl, and a plain powdered platinum 
wig. Her face was drawn with exhaustion and, lacking the usual artifice of 
makeup, revealed wrinkles and an unhealthy color, while her dark brown 
eyes were sunken and reddened around the lids.
Empress Justinia walked past the priests and the breakfast service and 
the Ladies-in-Attendance and the doctors. She stopped in silence before 
her seated daughter.
“Claere . . .” the Empress said. “Claere, my child, can you hear me? It 
is your mother. Look at me.”
A pause. Even the whispering of prayers ceased.
The Infanta made that familiar-by-now effort of breathing. And then, 
slowly and stiffly she turned her head away from the window and toward 
the Empress.
“Your Majesty,” she said. Her face was serene and blank.
The Empress suddenly burst into weeping. Her face contorted and she 
immediately covered it with her hands in a last vestige of protocol, for it 
was said nowhere that the Empress can be seen to weep in public.
“Mother . . .” Claere said. And she reached forward with her right 
hand, just barely touching the arm of the Empress with her fingertips.
Her touch was cold as the winter outside.
The Empress could not suppress a shudder and then was immediately 
horrified at her own reaction. She exclaimed hoarsely, “Leave us, all of 
you! Begone from this chamber and give us privacy.”
The servants and attendants did not need to be told twice. The Ladies-
in-Attendance fled in gratitude. Even the priests shuffled out in a measure 
of relief, and the two attendant doctors bowed their way out, casting 
pointed glances at their patient before the doors were shut behind them all.
Mother and daughter alone remained in the room.
The Empress still felt the aftereffects of that shudder of continued 
terror and revulsion, mixed with tenderness and anguish. But now at least 
she could allow herself normal human emotion without a facade of 
decorum. Justinia Liguon forced herself at first, forced her body to make 
that initial motion, and then her loving instinct broke through and she took 
the steps and closed the distance between her child, taking the frail Infanta 
in her arms, holding her with a force that she may never have allowed 
herself before, but now—none of it mattered, did it? Nothing could hurt 
her daughter again—now she squeezed and rocked and held on tight to the 
cold wooden thing in her arms. . . . And there was no more doubt.
She embraced a corpse.
And as the full realization came to her in that instant, the Empress 
broke down completely, became a thing of liquid pain without bone and 
muscle, and sobbed and sobbed, her face red and contorted, her tears and 
imperial snot running down and staining her cheeks and the cheeks and 
hair of the dead thing in her arms. At the same time, the drying red stain 
on the front of the Infanta’s gown, crushed against her chest, was now 
smeared all over the Empress’s cream dress, and it did not matter. . . .
None of it mattered.
“Mother. . . .”
The corpse was speaking to her. No, no, her daughter was speaking 
to her! In the same instant her fury at herself broke through the tumble of 
horror that was the dislocated contents of her mind. The Empress felt a 
strange expansion of the wooden chest against her own, and an intake of 
air, and then, the words came again, rattling softly against her own chest, 
like a sympathetic drum, flesh to flesh, living to dead.
“Please don’t cry on my behalf, mother.”
“Oh God in Heaven and Blessed Mother of God! You’re all right, 
child, yes you are, you are!” the Empress said, her own breath coming in 
gasps, lips against her daughter’s cold forehead and soft hair—her hair at 
least was still the same, soft, delicate, sweet cobwebs. . . .
“What has happened to me, mother? I don’t know.” Claere said. “I 
don’t think I am the same. No. I know I am not. I should be . . . dead.”
“Oh God, no, hush!”
But the Infanta was indeed no longer the same submissive creature, 
for she put her cold stiff hands against her mother’s shuddering warm 
chest and she pushed her away, gently but firmly.
“No, mother. I am sorry, but I am—not alive. There is no pain, no . . . 
anything. I no longer feel the world. My fingers—numb—all of me. Not 
sure how else to describe—but I am . . . As though I am locked in a room 
with thick walls and thick glass windows, and I am looking out at you and 
everything through those impenetrable windows. Nothing touches me 
from . . . your side.”
“Oh God! Claere, my little dearest, dearest one, but how could that 
be? How, oh how? You are here, you are here with me and you are alive, 
and—”
“When the knife entered me, it hurt. But only for a moment. Terrible 
pain, then it dissolved into nothing. Something—I felt something recede 
and it was like a blink of the eye. I was not, and I was pulled inside out 
and then. . . . And then, I was back. Like this. Locked inside that thick 
room, feeling nothing.” 
“What he did to you. . . . He will pay, oh how he will pay!” the 
Empress exclaimed in a sudden fury. “The damned hellspawn of Fiomarre 
who . . . hurt you. He will be tortured and his family will be brought down 
at last, and even their memory will be rendered into dust—”
In that instant the door of the chamber opened, and even as the 
Chamberlain hurried to announce His Imperial Majesty, the Emperor 
himself walked in, followed by a tall dark bearded man of advanced 
middle years, with a steady willful gaze who was the Duke Claude Rovait 
of Morphaea, dressed in travel clothes that showed signs of his having 
travelled in haste.
The Emperor had also changed from his blinding formal splendor of 
court to an everyday coat and jacket of deep velvet. His face, scrubbed of 
makeup, was of an unhealthy color, and wrinkles showed readily. His wig 
sat almost crookedly over his balding pate, as though donned in a hurry, 
and his cravat was hastily tied.
“My child . . . There you are,” Josephuste Liguon II said in a weary 
tremulous voice. “How . . . How do you feel?”
At his clumsy words, the Empress once again broke out into desolate 
weeping.
But the Infanta turned her blank face toward her father and she said, 
“Your Majesty, I am . . . fine.”
The Duke Rovait took the moment to bow. “Your Imperial Majesties, 
Your Imperial Highness,” he said in a deep voice, speaking with greater 
gentleness than might have been expected from his thick frame. “Most 
profound pardons for interrupting. I am newly arrived from my Letheburg 
visit—having attended the Prince and Princess and Her Majesty’s bedside
—with news of some great import, but first I offer my sincerest 
condolences at your . . . pain.”
“There is no pain,” the Infanta said again. And her mother, who had 
in the last several moments gone from silence to crying to silence again, 
burst into a new fit of weeping.
“Claere, child . . .” the Emperor said. “It is—well, the news the Duke 
has delivered to me, is something that must be told to you.”
“It pertains to Your Imperial Highness’s present . . .  condition,” 
added the Duke.
The Empress stopped crying and froze, staring at the Duke and then 
her consort. The Infanta merely turned her face slightly from one to the 
other, as though she were swiveling a doll’s head along a neck that was 
nothing more than a wooden dowel.
“Well, go on, repeat what you told me,” said the Emperor with a grim 
expression.
The Duke inclined his head and proceeded to tell a strange 
unbelievable story of what had come to pass in the Kingdom of Lethe the 
night before. He spoke of the apparition of Death, of the demand for the 
Cobweb Bride, of the old Queen who would not die, and of the armies of 
the marching living and dead that had returned, all to a man, from a near-
slaughter to their respective Dukedoms of Goraque and Chidair. He spoke 
of the Royal Decree that had been proclaimed, compelling all eligible 
maidens of the Kingdom and beyond to go forth and present themselves to 
Death as potential brides. He had ridden hard upon the request of the 
Prince of Lethe, having put at least four horses into lather, and had arrived 
to personally warn the Emperor of what was happening.
“There is no more dying, anywhere,” he concluded. “As of last night, 
the moment of the Apparition and the Demand.”
“It must’ve happened just before the attack upon our child . . .” the 
Emperor mused.
“Then . . . I am dead indeed,” Claere Liguon said softly.
“No!” the Empress exclaimed.
But the Emperor shook his head, his eyes dark and so very old. “She 
is but at the mercy of Death now. Suspended between life and the . . . 
other.”
The Duke cleared his throat. “Indeed. Not only Her Imperial 
Highness—hundreds, nay thousands of others are also suspended thus. 
Until this infernal Cobweb Bride is found and brought to the Northern 
Forest and presented before Death.”
“What can be done?” whispered the Empress. “This is unbelievable 
and I just don’t know if—”
“Your Imperial Majesty realizes, of course, that the world must be 
returned to its natural course. The dead must be allowed to proceed on to 
the next world.”
“But—” the Empress said. “If—if so, then, Claere will really die! She 
will leave us! No, it cannot be!”
“Indeed. But—” the Emperor said, his brow twisted with a frown.
The Duke watched them both, and observed the blank face of the 
Infanta.
“Then I must be allowed to die,” she said suddenly. “It is not natural 
that I am . . . like this. I am dead.”
“Oh, but Claere, sweet child, no! You don’t know what you are 
saying, this is just impossible—” the Empress began.
But the Infanta ignored her. “What—what can be done to find this 
Cobweb Bride? She must be found. I—I must find her.”
And then, for the first time, an almost living expression came to her 
grey wan face. “What if I am the Cobweb Bride?” said the Infanta. “If I 
am she, then I must present myself before Death and allow him to choose 
me. Indeed, it makes good sense—since I am no longer one of the living, 
then it must be that I belong to him.”
“Oh God, child, what are you saying?” the Empress exclaimed, 
putting her hands to the sides of her face, as though to frame the horror of 
her expression.
The Emperor meanwhile started to pace the chamber. His face was 
grim, while conflicting thoughts labored for dominance inside him.
The Duke Rovait continued to observe with some concern. Then, 
clearing his throat once more, he said, “I suggest that a similar Imperial 
Decree be proclaimed by Your Imperial Majesty, in regard to the Cobweb 
Bride. An edict that would bind not merely Lethe but all three Kingdoms 
of the Realm. I will personally convey your ultimate decision to my own 
King in Morphaea, and His Majesty King Orphe Geroard will comply 
immediately.”
“Argh!” exclaimed the Emperor, putting a hand against his temples, 
squeezing hard, as though he could tear the weight of the decision out of 
himself. “If we do this, then we condemn my child to certain death. If we 
don’t, then the world is—the world is not right, is—is—”
He roared in anguish and continued his pacing.
“I do not envy Your Imperial Majesty’s grave decision,” Claude 
Rovait said. “But—think of the greater balance, the greater good—”
“Greater good?” the Emperor roared once more, his voice no longer 
thin and wavering. “What greater good can there be when my child—my 
life—when she is gone? How can the world remain, the sun shine? Indeed, 
will it shine? How can the world go on? How?”
“Father, please . . .” The Infanta’s soft measured words came like a 
balm of reason.
Slowly, and stiffly she took several steps forward and reached out to 
the Emperor her father. A cold wooden limb moved and it was her own. 
Her hand. With it she touched him on the cheek, an act that would have 
broken all protocol—but now she was no longer the same retiring and 
sickly Claere, and she could do such things with impunity, she could dare 
to do such things and more.
“Proclaim the Edict, Your Imperial Majesty, My Father. It is the only 
thing to do. And I am going to do the only thing also. I will find Death and 
he can have me. One way or another. As a Cobweb Bride or as a mortal 
woman.”
“Claere! No, child, there must be another way!” The Empress began 
to wring her hands.
But Claere, dead and cold like the grave, like the winter outside, wore 
the most living expression in her eyes.
And at last the Emperor conceded. Nodding, he said to the Duke, “It 
will be done then. My beloved child will be taken from us in one way or 
another, but at least I will not go against her final will. So few get the 
chance in this life to know the true final will of the ones they cherish.”
“My final will . . .” Claere said softly. “Yes, it is. And there is one 
other thing. The man who struck me this mortal blow . . . I must see him 
now.”
“He will be executed tomorrow,” said the Emperor fiercely. “The 
Fiomarre son will die as his father had before him, a traitor. Their family 
ends with him. His mother shall be stripped of their rank and the lands will 
be confiscated and absorbed into the Imperial Crown.”
“No.”
They looked at her.
“No,” the Infanta repeated. “It is a portion of my final will that this 
man first come and speak with me, so that I can understand why he did 
this deed. Besides, you know he literally cannot die now. You can only 
ruin his body, with him still inhabiting it, a macabre horror that I beg you 
not to enact. Thus, instead, I must take the chance to understand him.”
“What is there to understand, dear child? A horrible wicked traitor! 
He is an abomination and will be punished as befitting his crime. How can 
you even endure to look at him, the beast?” her mother said.
“And yet I must see him, if I am to have eternal peace,” the Infanta 
repeated. “Please. . . . Now.”
And with those words she turned around, turned her back on them all 
without being dismissed, heedless of Imperial protocol, and returned to her 
chair near the window.
Protocol did not apply to the dead.
Niobea stood at the bedside of old Bethesia, listening to her death rattle 
that had become the heartbeat of their home. A large basket filled with 
food and covered with a kerchief was sitting on the tabletop, next to a 
folded shawl.
It was the early dawning morning of the second day. The night 
before, Alann and Percy had come home in a rush with the news of the 
Royal Decree, and suddenly it all made sense. At least now Niobea knew 
why Bethesia was like this, why she was on the verge of going and yet 
would not leave the world.
Niobea also knew with a sickness that ate at her soul that she had to 
part with at least one of her daughters. The Decree left no doubt that 
someone of marriageable age had to go, and she would not be able to face 
the village if she withheld her daughters. All night they could hear the 
voices of their different neighbors and the sounds of weeping outside, as 
mothers grieved.
Alann had been of no help. After telling her what he learned, he gave 
Niobea one dark look of sorrow, then went to his mother’s bedside and 
stayed there for several moments, then surprisingly went directly to bed.
Percy had stayed back in the room. After putting a kettle of water to 
boil she huddled in silence near the stove, watching Belle peel tubers for 
the next day’s meal, and Patty sift old flour. They were all inordinately 
quiet after having heard the news.
“Well?” Niobea said suddenly addressing them all. “What is to be 
done with you, children?”
Silence.
And then, “I suppose I must go . . .” Belle said in a faint voice. 
Putting down the knife and the vegetables, she sat looking at her mother. 
“I am . . . the eldest and most marriageable.”
Niobea stared at her fair oldest child and then her lips began to 
tremble, while liquid pooled in the corners of her eyes, blurring her vision.
“Ma?” said Patty. “Maybe—maybe I ought to go? I am young but, 
well, I think I am old enough to be a bride. . . .”
“No, what are you saying, idiot child? You are a little baby still, no! 
And may the Lord be praised for that!” Niobea exclaimed.
Percy looked at them all. She then threw a glance at her grandmother 
dying without end. And she glanced at the everpresent shadow in the 
corner.
And then she got up, and steeled her heart and her facial muscles. 
“It’s all right. I’ll go,” she said in a dull voice. “Tomorrow morning.”
There was silence.
And then Niobea looked at her middle daughter, and though tears still 
brimmed in her eyes, the pressure at the back of her throat lessened 
considerably. “Well, it’s settled then,” she said curtly.
And that was that.
Percy paused for a moment, because there might have been 
something else any one of them could have said to her at this point. But 
they did not. Neither Niobea nor Belle. Not even Patty. And Alann was in 
bed in the other room.
And so Percy muttered, “I’m going to bed now. So that I can get an 
early start.”
Niobea had nodded then, and finally, as the girl was about to head to 
her corner, she said, “I’ll pack you a basket.” 
It was the most she was going to get from Niobea. And the most that 
Niobea was able to give.
This morning however, Niobea, who had spent a sleepless night, got 
up in the pre-dawn dark and, tormented by pangs of guilt, put together a 
basket of their best, including all that was to be their dinner that coming 
day, two fresh loaves of oat bread, a jar of raspberry preserves, and a small 
bag of dried raisins that had been a precious gift from a distant relation 
earlier that autumn. She did not know what it was, why the guilt ate at her 
so much—but no, she did know very well. It was guilt at the relief that 
Percy had granted her, relief that she was not about to lose either one of 
her two favorites.
And then Niobea thought about something else and returned to her 
bedroom where Alann was sleeping like a dead man—or possibly 
pretending to be asleep—and she pulled out the trunk under their bed that 
contained her ancient yellowing lace, a few books, and all her treasures 
from the better days of her youth. There was a shawl there, woolen and 
fine-spun, yet thick and folded over, then sewn together in a double layer 
for warmth, one that she never used, considering it too fine for their 
present life.
But now, she knew exactly how it was to be used. Niobea sniffed the 
shawl one last time, drawing in the memories of the past with one moldy 
whiff of mothballs and violets and then folded it on her bed and replaced 
the chest underneath.
In the dark she took the shawl to the kitchen and left it lying next to 
the food basket. All the while, a few feet away Bethesia continued to 
breathe, making the horrible death rattle, as though to reassure Niobea that 
everything was indeed proceeding as it should.
When the milky grey dawn light started to seep in through the cracks in 
the drawn shutters, Percy rose from her narrow bed alongside the wall, 
near her sisters’ beds. She had thought she would not sleep that night from 
the cold terror and emptiness that had gripped her as soon as she had 
announced her decision to go. But at some point in the darkness she had 
fallen into a deep bout of unconsciousness, so at least there was 
something.
But now she was fully awake; worms of worry and fear crawling 
through her empty stomach.
What had she volunteered for? This was insane! The realization 
struck her full-force in the morning, and she considered waking up Alann 
and Niobea and then falling down on the floor before them like a baby and 
just weeping and begging to be released from this. But the next instant she 
thought, then Belle would have to go in her stead, and how fair would that 
be? Nothing about any of this was fair. But because Percy was going to be 
missed least of all, for that alone it was her duty to go.
And so Percy steeled herself against the fear and instead took a deep 
breath, drawing in courage together with the morning chill. Then she went 
to use the chamberpot, washed her face from the bowl in the corner, and 
got dressed.
As she put on her usual clothing she thought of what she was about to 
do—go outside into the snow and just . . . keep walking. She had no idea 
where she was to go. She was certain that very soon she would tire and 
then freeze to death, probably this very night. Maybe that’s what it meant 
to be a Cobweb Bride? Whatever it entailed, death was the key factor 
there, the one inevitable factor. Even if she was not the one eventually 
chosen, she would still very likely be subjected to the winter cold and the 
eventual death from exposure to the elements. . . .
Bethesia’s death rattle breath intruded upon Percy’s grim thoughts as 
she quietly moved about in the corner getting her socks and thick 
underpants and all her warmest clothing. As she listened to the breath, it 
occurred to her that she was doing it for grandma. She was going to 
relieve her of this unending agony, by God! And for Belle! She was doing 
it for Belle so that Belle could have a life and get married and have a 
family of her own. And she was doing it for her mother Niobea, so that 
she would not lose the two daughters she truly loved. And she was doing it 
for Alann, her father who would be proud of her in the end, proud that she 
did not live in vain, and that at least she tried. . . .
And then a sudden realization of crystalline clarity came to her—she 
could go through the motions and “die” out there in the cold, but she could 
not die, because death had stopped! No matter what was to happen, cold, 
starvation, hardship, she couldn’t even die now! None of them could!
And for some reason this one insane thought made Percy feel much 
better. She was, like the rest of the world, suspended in a bubble of life 
and thus immortal, at least for the moment.
What a strange dizzying thought. . . .
In the kitchen, Niobea was bustling with her back turned to her, the 
kettle had boiled, and a warm mug of apple cider-flavored bark tea sat on 
the table, waiting for her. Right next to it was a huge basket and a 
wonderful folded woolen shawl that Percy recognized vaguely as one of 
her mother’s heirloom treasures.
“Good morning, child,” Niobea said, with her back still turned. 
“There, it’s all for your journey. The food should last for at least a week if 
you ration it out properly, and then, Lord knows if you might come upon 
an . . . inn or an eatery, or some kind soul with food to share.”
“Ma!” Percy said in amazement, “I can’t take your best shawl!”
Niobea turned to look at her. There was a look of intensity in her 
moist glistening eyes. “No daughter of mine is going out in public looking 
like a beggar,” she said coldly. “The shawl’s very warm, and you’ll need it 
out there.”
“Thank you, Ma . . .” Percy’s voice became a whisper.
“Now, eat well, and be sure to drink that warm tea, child. Then we’ll 
see you on your way . . .”
And so it was that Percy sat down to eat one of the heartiest 
breakfasts of her life, which included a whole egg scrambled with onions, 
potatoes crisp-fried with sunflower oil, a large crunchy pickle, and a 
warmed thick slice of bread slathered with butter and jam.
While Percy was eating, Belle had risen from her bed, followed by 
Patty and finally Alann. The two sisters stood with backs propped against 
the walls, as though trying to disappear into them outright, watching their 
third sister, while Alann stopped in the middle of the room, frowning.
Suddenly Belle began to cry. She then muttered, “I’m so sorry, 
Percy!” and ran off into her parents’ room.
Patty too stood with quivering lips, watching Percy.
Percy swallowed another bite of eggs then said, “Stop it, Pat. Nothing 
to weep about, you just watch, I’ll be back. There’ll be a fancy noble 
maiden chosen as the Cobweb Bride, I’m sure, and the rest of us ordinary 
girls will get to go home.”
At those words Patty broke down completely, became a mess of 
uncontrollable sobbing, and rushed out of the room after Belle.
“Daughter,” said Alann suddenly. “You don’t have to go. When was 
this decided, last night? Why wasn’t I told?”
“You were abed,” Niobea said. She had a peculiar expression on her 
face as she turned to her husband.
“It’s all right, Pa,” Percy said. It was getting to be easier and easier 
for her to insist on going, now that they were actually giving her reasons 
not to.
“I mean it, child!” Alann continued. “You are not obligated to do the 
duty that should fall, by all that’s fair, to an older daughter.”
“Alann!” Niobea exclaimed. Suddenly she looked agitated, and had 
dropped the cover of the pot she was handling. “It’s already settled, say no 
more, I beg you!”
But Alann’s frown only deepened and for once he stared directly 
back at his wife with intensity. “How was this settled, wife? Did you make 
her feel obligated to volunteer? Is that what you call settled?”
“How dare you!” Niobea’s voice rose a notch.
“Ma, Pa, please!” Percy suddenly cut in. She then looked back and 
forth between her glaring parents. “Everything is fine, and I am going.”
“Decree be damned, girl, you can stay here and let them all go to hell 
around us!” Alann said, his eyes reflecting the angry licking flames of the 
hearth fire.
How I love you, if only you knew, Pa, how much I love you. Now, of 
all times, your words give me joy. . . .
With a burst of hope and pride, Percy set down her spoon, emptied 
the dregs of her mug, and got up. And suddenly a smile broke out on her 
lips.
Alann and Niobea watched her, both stilled in a strange combination 
of horrified anticipation and remorse.
Percy went to get her overcoat and put it on in the quiet of the 
crackling   firelight   and   the   death-rattle   music   coming   from   her 
grandmother. She bent down, wrapped her feet in a second layer of socks 
and slipped her feet into the bulky woven snowshoes. Last of all she 
approached the table and took the shawl. With care and awe she 
unwrapped it, was assailed with a faint musty smell and the scent of 
flowers; and then she drew it over her head and wrapped it tight around 
her throat and tied the ends together.
The shawl draped itself with immediate luxurious warmth around her 
shoulders and reached all the way down her lower back and hips. It would 
serve her more than well as an extra protective layer against the cold wind.
Percy stood up straight, pulled her old mittens out of the coat pocket, 
drew them on, and then took hold of the heavy basket filled with food.
“I am ready,” she said.
There was a pause.
Alann came up to her and took hold of her in a bear hug. He kissed 
her forehead and she felt the power and love in his arms and it gave her an 
extra resolve, added to her strength.
“May the Lord watch over you, child . . . my Persephone,” her father 
said softly into her hair.
When Percy was finally released from the embrace, Niobea was 
holding the icon of the Mother of God. She took a step toward her middle 
daughter, and she raised the icon and held it near Percy’s forehead.
“Bless you, child . . . Go with the Lord.”
“Thank you, mother, father,” said Percy. Suddenly there was the 
beginning familiar pressure at the back of her throat, a storm roiling to 
burst. And so, instead she turned her back on them quickly and went to the 
front door. She did not look back as she drew the bolt, opened the door 
and slipped outside into the world of cold grey dawn.
“Take this away. I am dead and have no more need of food,” Duke 
Hoarfrost said to the servant who had brought in the morning tray up to his 
bedchamber. Usually he’d reach eagerly for the mug of strong tea and 
down it for the invigorating heat, the warmth, then begin on the toast and 
pungent herbed bacon. But now—
“Yes, M’Lord.”
“When you are done, have my son attend me.”
“Yes, M’Lord.”
He barely turned his head to watch out of the corner of his stiff eye 
the movements of the man who bowed and began removing the service 
with an unreadable expression.
Hoarfrost was standing before the great window overlooking a vista 
of Northern forestland and just a slice of the Western hills in the distance 
that marked the edges of the Chidair holdings. The winter morning sky 
was grizzled and dull. Occasional black streaks of hunting hawks moved 
in silhouette against the vapid sky.
The night before they had returned to the Chidair Keep, a strange 
nightmarish army comprised of soldiers both humanly alive and no longer 
so—an army of men and living body parts. The cheers of the townswomen 
and children and the old men who greeted them soon turned to sobbing 
and cries of terror as they saw their loved ones returning in pieces or as 
walking corpses. As the day faded into twilight the wailing resounded 
non-stop, hushed only by the coming of the cold night and the snowfall.
But Hoarfrost continued hearing it, the music of winter and grief and 
passing. It filled his mind with dislocated pain and a confused jumble of 
thoughts. Even as he rode into the courtyard of his ancient family holding, 
followed by his subdued son and the remaining men of his retinue, the 
ghostly weeping echoed in the stones of the Keep, in the crowns of the 
evergreens growing alongside the road.
Later that night, he refused supper. And he did not sleep, of course. 
Bodily functions had ceased together with bodily needs; there was only 
the tedious sensation of imprisonment in this physical shape that no longer 
fully served him, no longer connected him via the senses to the world.
As the fire burned low in the fireplace of his bedchamber, he forced 
himself to bend, forced his stiff muscles to assume the proper shape, and 
then he sat down in the deep padded chair and watched the fading of the 
flames until the room was thrown into complete dark. He was not tired. It 
was merely simpler to sit than maintain the subtle balance to remain 
standing, for with the cessation of life in his tissues the interesting notion 
of physical balance became more relevant. Living bodies balanced 
naturally, automatically, while he had to make a specific effort, as though 
maintaining a juggling act with several separate weights—head, arms, 
legs, torso.
His bed remained untouched. His clothing, except for the outer 
armor, was still the same as the day before, decorated with drying 
bloodstains and torn in many places where the steel had entered his 
flesh. . . . Why bother removing it?
And he merely waited.
He waited, not sure for what, sitting there, knowing no drowsiness, 
no weariness—nothing, in fact, for his body had become a distant and 
thick layer of something between him and everything else around him. 
When dawn began to seep in past the shutters and the thick brocade 
curtain, he again made the supreme effort of straightening himself in order 
to rise. With measured steps he moved to the window, drew the curtains 
apart, opened the shutters, and just watched. . . .
He watched the coming of the light.
Beltain was awakened out of an abysmal deep sleep by the touch of a 
wide palm against his shoulder—gentle yet firm, and familiar. His old 
valet, Rivour, was shaking him lightly, whispering, “My Lord, very sorry 
to wake you, but your father wants to see you.”
Beltain groaned, taking a deep waking breath, immediately feeling 
the post-battle soreness, the numerous bruises around his ribs, and the 
fierce sting of minor gashes and scratches that covered most of his body 
and face. Then, slowly he turned on his back in his warm large bed, 
moving carefully to stretch his muscled hands up past the coverlet. He 
flexed his battered swollen fingers with difficulty and pushed his dark 
brown hair out of his face.
“Damn . . . it’s too early,” he said hoarsely, yawning wide until 
something painful tugged at his jaw—another cut ending in a bruise. His 
brow gathered into a frown. And then, as the realization of everything 
came to him, “Oh, God . . .” he said.
Although he’d been weary to the bone, all sleep fled as his mind 
engaged, filled with clarity, and with it came terror. . . .
His father. His father was dead.
The battle. They were all dead, yet they were not.
He remembered everything—the fighting drawing to a close, the 
strange silence and then the ending of all that was ever normal with the 
world. He saw his father fall and die and then come back, a frozen creature 
of ice, breaking out of the lake, then coming to resume his command and 
riding home in the torch-light, their homecoming, the sounds of weeping 
all through town. . . .
Oh, God. . . .
Beltain sat up in bed, ignoring his injuries, swept his longish hair out 
of his face once more, then rested his face, its well-formed planes and lean 
angles, in his large hands and took in a shuddering breath, then smoothed 
his brow.
Rivour observed him with concern on his wrinkled face.
Another breath and Beltain pulled himself together. He turned the 
focused gaze of his slate-blue eyes to his friend and confidante of many 
years. There was enough resolve on his earnest face to push back the 
shadow of uncertainty that lurked in the background of his mind.
“How is . . . my father?” Beltain asked.
Rivour shook his head. “Hard to say, my Lord. He . . . speaks, moves. 
But—”
“But he is not exactly himself. I know.”
“Is he . . . ?” The unfinished question hung in the air between them.
“I don’t know,” Beltain responded. “I don’t understand any of this—
deviltry or God’s curse or whatever it is. But while he is able to command, 
it is my duty to obey him as a son.”
“I understand, M’Lord.” Rivour nodded, then proceeded to lay out 
fresh clothing.
“Ah, by Heaven, I wish there was time for a bath . . .” Beltain 
muttered as he rose from the bed, still wearing the same tattered and 
stained tunic and longjohns that had gone under his knight’s armor the day 
before.
Rivour observed his condition and the fouled bed with distaste, and 
again shook his head. “A bath would indeed be appropriate. Why did you 
not call me last night to help you out of this?”
“I don’t remember. . . . I think I came here and passed out. After all 
that happened.”
“Ah. . . .”
Beltain used the chamberpot, then poured cold water from a pitcher 
and leaned over the basin in the corner to wash his face. As ice water came 
in contact with his sensitive skin, he grimaced and cursed.
“I’ll call up a bath, you are in no condition to go anywhere,” said 
Rivour.
“But if he expects me—”
“No matter. I’ll come up with something to relay to His Grace, to 
stall him for an hour. For the moment you need a physician’s attention and 
that bath.”
And with those words Rivour exited the bedchamber in a hurry.
An hour later, after a brief soak in a tub of scalding-hot water, followed by 
the application of salve and bandages in many places over his body, 
Beltain was cleaned up, dressed in a comfortable shirt, jacket, and trousers 
worthy of a duke’s son, and then made his way through the Keep to see his 
father.
“Where have you been, whelp?” Hoarfrost greeted him, the cheerful 
nature of his words marred by the wheezing measured sound they made 
and the accompanying strange mechanical rumble of his chest. Duke Ian 
Chidair stood before the window of his chamber, silhouetted against the 
bleak daylight. The air in the room was thick and heavy, and Beltain 
recognized a faint sweet scent of putrefaction.
“Forgive me, my Lord Father,” Beltain replied as he took several 
controlled steps to approach him. “I came as fast as I could. My wounds—
they needed to be cleaned—”
“Your wounds!” Hoarfrost roared.
And Beltain realized what he’d said and how it sounded . . . here and 
now. And so he bit his lip and remained quiet, while the Duke neared him, 
smelling of brackish lake water and old blood.
Hoarfrost slowly circled his son who stood looking straight ahead of 
himself, stiff as a post and taller than his bulky father by only half a head.
“Wounds, eh?” muttered the Duke, craning his neck only, while his 
face remained motionless and grey-white, and his eyeballs sat still in his 
eye-sockets like glass marbles.
“I am . . . sorry,” whispered Beltain.
The dead face drew very close.
“Look at me, boy . . .” he hissed. “You see a dead man, don’t you?”
Silence.
And then, “I . . . don’t know, my Lord.”
“You lie!” exclaimed the animated corpse. “You always did lie 
poorly, which is a credit to you, my boy. But come now, don’t be afraid of 
your own father now. . . . Am I dead to you?”
Beltain inhaled a shallow draft of the putrid air. “Yes . . . I believe 
you are dead. I saw you fall, Father, I was there. Yet somehow you are 
still here, just as all those other men who were struck mortal blows 
yesterday.”
“Ah, yes. . . . What a riot it was. Ugly and treacherous. A true day of 
death, and yet. . . .” Hoarfrost slowly turned away from his son and again 
approached the window. “You know I cut him down first,” he mused. 
“That knight of Goraque who then struck me in the back when I turned, 
thinking him done. He struck me. He should have been dead. The bloody 
whoreson killed me after he was killed already, killed and dead and—”
“I know,” Beltain said. “I watched it happen. Forgive, my Lord, that I 
was only a span of a horselength too far from you to stop him. Forgive 
me. . . .”
“So, what am I then? What am I? A specter or a skeleton?”
Beltain lowered his gaze down to the level of his father’s chest and 
waist, but now his eyes were taking in the grisly torn tunic and blood-clot 
stains and—he had to look away again, anywhere else, safe, anywhere.
“Well, whatever I am, I might be full of holes but at least I have all 
my limbs. Did you see some of those other poor bastards, coming home in 
pieces? Eh, did you see? Now, that’s a real hell of a way to go, or should I 
say, not go.”
“Is there something I can do for you now, Father, some way I can 
alleviate your . . . pain?”
Hoarfrost made a sound like a grunt, and more air escaping his chest 
added a polyphonic hiss. “There’s no pain, boy. At least that’s a blessing. 
No, nothing you can do for me anymore. I feel—if you can call it that—
like a barrel filled with piss-flat beer. Just a weight of stone. Can’t smell or 
taste anything, though I’m sure this body of mine’s beginning to reek.”
And then Hoarfrost expanded his chest and let out the air in a deep 
bass roar. Beltain almost jumped at the sound of it.
“Argh!” the Duke bellowed, then raised his hands squeezed in two 
fists to shoulder level and higher, moving stiffly until they were at the 
level of his head. And then he started to chuckle softly.
The chuckles became guffaws. Whistling with air, Hoarfrost laughed, 
while his son watched him in silent horror.
“I feel damned nothing!” Hoarfrost cried. “And now that I think 
about it, it’s not a bad thing, to feel nothing! I like it! No gout, no back or 
gut ache, no battle bruises, no hunger, no thirst! Not even the smallest 
desire to rut with a wench!”
He turned to Beltain with a crooked broken attempt at a smile. His 
dark eyes burned with a strange stilled intensity in their sockets that 
somehow managed to be more frightening than anything else about him 
previously. “Well, boy, look at me, and tell me I don’t cut a fine figure! 
Oh, and don’t for a moment think that since I’m a reeking corpse you are 
the new Duke around here. Not so fast, whelp! For as long as I still move 
and can open my mouth to speak my will, you still owe me fealty.”
Beltain raised an earnest gaze of wounded pride. “You are my Lord 
and Liege, Father! Have I ever not obeyed you? How can you doubt me! I 
swear I am yours now and always. I don’t understand this, whatever has 
happened to you, to our men, but I know that when you speak, I will obey
—for as long as you are able to command. I can have no claim while you 
are in this world.”
“Ah . . . Good, boy, very good. In that case you and I have an 
excellent understanding. Indeed, you and I, yes—we’re going to have a 
real time ahead of us, the time of our life, you might say. Because 
whatever this is, it makes us invincible. And you know what that means?”
Hoarfrost suddenly brought his fisted right hand forward and through 
the old glass of the window.
As the glass shattered, letting in the freezing cold winter air from the 
outside, Hoarfrost laughed, and then continued smashing his fist like a 
hammer against the razor shards.
Beltain watched his father with an unreadable expression.
Even without the outside air, the world had grown very cold.
Chapter 5
In the first bluish glimmer of dawn, Percy walked slowly down the narrow 
rutted street of Oarclaven, past neighbor houses. Her bulky well-wrapped 
feet crunched against the fresh powder of snow that covered the road with 
a deceptive blanket of smoothness. The basket of food made an 
uncomfortable weight in her mittened hand.
There were a number of neighbors who were also up and about at this 
early hour. She could hear voices coming from the shuttered windows and 
see thin slivers of light between the wood planks from breakfast hearth 
fires being lit. Smoking chimneys filled the cold air with pungency.
And then, as she turned the corner and approached the Doneil house 
where the worst of yesterday’s excitement had taken place, there was 
Jenna Doneil. She was coming down their porch, wrapped up in many 
layers against the cold, carrying a small travel sack.
Percy paused momentarily, then raised her hand to wave at the girl.
Jenna looked up, froze for an instant, then hurried down their snow-
covered front walkway to meet her on the road.
“Morning,” Percy said, pausing to stand before the Doneil house. 
“You heading where I think you’re heading?”
“Yeah . . .” Jenna nodded. “Pa and Ma say I have to go and be a 
Cobweb Bride, if he takes me. . . .”
“Yes, same here.”
“I don’t want to.”
“Neither do I,” said Percy. And then, added. “But, are you sure 
you’re of an age to be a bride? How come you have to go? I thought 
you’re a whole year younger than my little sis Patty.”
Jenna raised her swaddled white face and there was a fierce 
expression in her eyes. “I am old enough,” she said in a defiant twelve-
year-old whisper, as though anyone from the house could hear her. “I got 
breasts already. Well, some. . . . And anyway, my parents think I’m old 
enough, cause Pa was gonna have me be promised to Jack Rosten’s 
second son by spring so that they could get the bull and the two sheep.”
“Oh, now that’s a shame.” Percy started walking again, and Jenna 
trailed after her, matching her strides. “The Rosten boys are trouble, aren’t 
they? And the second son, what’s his name?”
“Jules.”
“Right, Jules. He’s not that much older than you.”
“He’s gross. . . . And he has crooked buckteeth and he pulls my skirt 
and always pinches me here an’ there. I’d rather die than go with him. But 
Pa says I have to. . . . And besides, I am afraid to stay in our house now, 
after yesterday—you know.”
“I see,” Percy said, thinking of the poor squealing pig from the night 
before and whatever happened to it, and indeed not daring to take that path 
of imagination any further. As they passed the main street there seemed to 
be a number of other girls and young women headed variously up the 
roads.
“Do you think they are all going to be Cobweb Brides?” Jenna said.
“I don’t know. It’s possible many of them are.”
“Are you . . . I mean, do you know where . . .” Jenna began, then 
grew silent momentarily. “Do you know where you’re supposed to, 
well . . . go?”
Percy turned her head to look at the girl at her side. She pursed her 
winter-chapped lips, licked them to warm against the unrelenting dryness 
of the ice air. “We’re supposed to head north, is what we’re told. Into the 
Northern Forests. And then we look around for Death’s Keep.”
“How are we supposed to do that? What’s it look like?”
Percy moved her basket over from one hand to the other to free up 
her hand closest to Jenna. She then took the younger girl’s smaller 
mittened hand and gave it a squeeze. “I have no blasted idea,” she said. 
“But how about you and I go looking together? You can walk along with 
me all the way, and we won’t get lost.”
Jenna’s face beamed, and she turned to look up at Percy. “Oh, can I? 
Because I don’t know if I can figure out this north any farther than the 
next town. Pa says it’s right if I go east on the big road toward Tussecan. 
But after Tussecan there’s just the one fork in the road and then I don’t 
know. . . . And I don’t even know Tussecan all that well, I only been there 
twice.”
“After Tussecan we can ask the locals. We’ll figure it out,” Percy 
replied.
“Thanks   for   being   nice   to   me,   Percy . . .”   Jenna   whispered. 
“Everyone always says I am daft or feeble or skittish-crazy and jump 
around too much. I am no good, except to help Pa when he butchers. . . . 
But—”
“Well, now you can help me,” said Percy with a smile. “I wasn’t 
looking forward to walking alone, and this way neither of us will be 
scared. Right?”
“Right!”
“And probably neither one of us will get picked as a Cobweb Bride, 
so we can walk back home together too.”
Jenna nodded and her posture relaxed visibly.
They continued walking, following the turns of the road heading east 
through town. As the day grew lighter, Oarclaven came alive, and Percy 
waved to familiar people who waved back. The mood was somber 
however, and smiles came uneasy or not at all. Seemed peculiar to think 
about it now, in the light of day, but only last night there had been the 
weeping and the panic as the young women ran and hid or else entreated 
their families to be spared the grim fate. . . .
“Percy?” Jenna said as they passed the Murel bakery where the strong 
warm aroma of fresh bread poured forth like fairy joy on the blistering 
wind. “What if we just ran away? Instead of going to the Northern Forests, 
I mean. Who’s to know?”
“Hmm . . .” Percy replied, as they paused momentarily to watch the 
baker’s daughters set out fresh golden crusty loaves on the display at the 
windowsill. She noticed that Flor, the eldest, was moving about with red-
rimmed eyes and not even bothering to wipe her flour-dusted face or 
hands on the apron as she laid out the flaky pastries on the lacy doilies. 
For a moment she looked up and a desolate face met Percy’s. She nodded 
in greeting, then cast her gaze down and resumed her work.
“I think Flor Murel’s been told to go too,” Percy said quietly. 
“Probably has to finish up her morning chores first, then, if she walks fast, 
she might even catch up to us on the road.”
“Percy!” Jenna was tugging her arm.
“What?”
“Let’s not go north, Percy, please!” Jenna started whispering. “We 
can just turn around and go roundabout but the other way! We can go 
down to Letheburg instead! I never been to Letheburg, and they say the 
Royal Palace there is so grand, like a whole ten houses! We can stay there, 
and maybe find a place to live? And we can eat pastries and never have to 
worry about anything, and we don’t have to go looking for any old stupid 
Death—”
“Hmm . . .” said Percy again. “That does sound like a fine idea, 
especially in your case. You’re a young one and shouldn’t be involved in 
this mess. Maybe you really ought to head to Letheburg. But for me—let 
me think here for a moment. . . .”
She walked about ten paces, looking very much deep in thought, 
while Jenna threw anxious glances at her and occasionally rubbed her 
frosted pink nose with her mittens.
“Here’s the thing,” Percy said. “You know how Death has made it 
that nobody dies until he gets his Cobweb Bride, right? And my Gran 
Bethesia’s been on the verge of going for a long time now, but she cannot. 
And she’s suffering. And then there are all those other people who should 
be dead but aren’t. And the animals too, I bet. . . . So, unless I at least try 
to do something to help them, all these people—and animals—may never 
get their blessed rest. Who knows what’s a person’s fate in this world? 
Maybe one is meant to try. Or—I can only speak for myself. It would sure 
be nice to just run away and hide out while all this is happening. But I 
know I can’t just abandon Gran and let some other people do the hard 
work to put things right with the world.”
Percy glanced at Jenna at that point, to gauge her reaction.
Jenna was frowning, as though she hadn’t properly thought about it. 
“The animals too . . .” she muttered.
“Yes. The ones that got hurt and now cannot pass on.”
“Then . . .” Jenna whispered, her face intense, “we probably better 
not run away.”
Percy nodded. “That’s what I’m thinking too. It’s just something that 
has to be done. And—I don’t know about you, but when the time comes 
for my soul to face the final reckoning, whatever it is, I’d go with a lighter 
conscience, knowing I haven’t run away from something that was mine to 
do.”
“We’ll go on to Tussecan,” Jenna said.
“Now . . . you’re sure? You could turn around and head back right 
now. I probably ought to insist you do. It’s not right for a little girl—”
“I am not a little girl!” Jenna sputtered.
And she did not say anything else for the rest of the hour, as they 
made it to the outskirts of town and began walking on the wide mostly 
empty road that became a thoroughfare.
The world was white and grey, with occasional spots of black that 
were tree trunks or dots of hunter birds crossing overhead. At times the 
shadow-flitter that was a red robin or a crested cardinal burned fiercely in 
the branches. The shoulders of the road were fringed with large snowdrifts 
over pasture and occasional fields, with sparse evergreens on either side. 
Now and then a cart clattered past them from either direction and they 
would stand aside to let it pass. But it was not a good idea to stop for too 
long, else the cold got to them.
In the winter you had to keep moving, Percy knew. Even though they 
were bundled well and still reasonably warm, and the sun was still rising 
out there somewhere in the dull morning sky, the wind continued being 
sharp.
And as the hours passed and the day advanced, she knew it would 
only get worse.
Vlau Fiomarre stood in the royal bedchamber before Her Imperial 
Highness, the Infanta Claere Liguon. He had been brought in rusted 
shackles from the dark and winter-cold holding cell down in the bowels of 
the Palace. There he had spent the night in absolute darkness chained by 
the wrists to the freezing stone wall, his face swollen with the beating, his 
elegant court clothing befouled and his jacket torn by the handling of the 
guards.
And now even the faded daylight seemed too glaring for his 
sensitized eyes.
Or maybe it was merely the sight of her. . . .
He had killed her.
And yet, here she sat, the accursed Liguon whelp, before a window in 
this chamber. She was still wearing her court dress from the night before, 
stained deep red-black with the blood from the mortal injury he had 
inflicted upon her shallow breast. On her head, the elaborate silver-
platinum wig, and on top, the bejewelled Crown. Her chest, waist, that of a 
wooden doll, a mere twig. Her neck—
A surge of cold familiar hatred washed over him as he remembered 
the intense focused moment of no return—pulling out his concealed 
dagger and striking her underneath her tiny rudimentary bud of a breast on 
the left side, directly in the heart.
In that instant the two of them became a single point, the center of all
—swept inward into one thing by the centripetal nature of the connection, 
in the middle of the glittering Silver Hall, surrounded by the grandest 
court in history of the Realm. He remembered the feel of his knife going 
in. Just a slight resistance. . . . Saw the precise moment of the emergence 
of the deep crimson stain, at the same time as he glanced up momentarily 
and was fixed, branded, with a look of her suddenly dilated eyes—two 
great, deep, smoky things.
It touched him, just for that one instant, her dark strange innocent 
purity of pain.
And then the world twisted, narrowed in a funnel, drew in even 
closer, until he could see the dust motes in the air and there was a roar 
they made, swirling . . . everything coming at him, filling his ears.
It was then he felt a fierce triumph, and a culmination of himself—his 
life, his next breath, nothing mattered now; he was done. A life for a life; 
his tragedy-consumed family at last avenged.
The screams in the Hall, the sudden tumult and chaos of rushing 
figures converging upon the Infanta as she must have collapsed—though 
he could never quite see, nor did he care—pounding agony of blows upon 
his face, his chest, his ribs, his back, guards grappling him down onto the 
floor as he struggled in fierce exultation, not because he had any hopes or 
notion of escape but because struggle he must; it was the only thing left to 
him, to go out like a firecracker, a comet of fury, an angel of final 
judgment.
And then, through it all, her heard her voice.
“Why?” she had asked him, as she stood upright somehow.
And he, maddened by the intensity of the moment, screamed 
insanities and his fury upon her, screamed things he could not recall now, 
something about death to the Liguon, Death to the Deceiver and his filthy 
line. The words came forth from him as gushing blood had come from her 
to stain the mirror-polished parquet floor.
“Why?” she had said. “What have I done to you?”
What had she done? What had the Imperial Crown done to his 
tortured blameless father who had remained loyal to the last? To his 
destroyed mother, to him and his brothers and sister? The stupefying 
horror of the things he could say now; they would pour out of him like 
black blood, in anguish. . . .
But no—his only reply again was a raving epithet devoid of 
substance. “Die, Liguon!”
And then, as the guards moved in to execute him on the spot, she 
stopped them with a sudden strange pronouncement. “No.” 
Do not yet kill this man as he had tried to kill me. I must know why 
he did this thing, why he hates me so. He must live until I know, she had 
said. And then she had faltered.
And she still lived.
Had his blow missed its sure and easy target, her heart, somehow? Or 
was she merely on her last breath, and was about to expire on the next?
And yet, others heard the enduring quality of her voice too. And the 
reaction of the court followed. He could no longer see any of it, forced 
down on his knees, then flat on the floor, cruelly pressed against the 
parquet by several booted feet, with his arms nearly wrenched out of their 
sockets from the back. But he could hear. And what he heard was a 
gradual terrible silence coming to the Hall, as waves and murmurs of 
voices faded, even the sobbing and moans of grief.
There was another moment of sudden activity, as physicians had 
come in full force, and through it all, yes, she still lived.
Then he heard a splatter of liquid hitting the floor.
A lot of liquid.
There was more sound, more silence, barely hushed exclamations of 
unrepressed shock.
And then he heard her voice again, living, clear, resonant in grand 
echoes through the Silver Hall—if such a thing were possible, a voice 
stronger now, more confident than it had been before—even though it was 
no louder than a stage whisper.
“I will see the Birthday Gifts now.”
And after that he remembered nothing more, only the smooth 
impersonal chill of the floor, ringing footsteps of Palace guards, the 
vertigo of being dragged for a long time, and then cold darkness.
That was last night. . . .
And now, here he was, wrenched out of the non-life of the prison, 
and brought before her, facing her once more.
And she was still alive.
Impossibly unbelievably alive.
Or was she?
There was something undefinable, peculiar about the way the Infanta 
sat, half in shadow, half-silhouetted by the dim light of the winter day 
outside. Like a collapsed puppet. A doll propped up by an invisible 
something from the back.
And then she slowly turned her face to him.
“Leave him,” she said to the two guards on both sides of him. Her 
intonation had the strange manner of rusty machinery.
And when the guards hesitated, she repeated, “Leave him here, with 
me. There is nothing more he can do to me now. No more . . . harm. Now, 
leave us.”
The guards bowed, then retreated in grim silence, closing the 
chamber doors behind them. There was no one else indeed in the room 
with them. Only the killer and his victim.
Fiomarre stared at her. He stood, swaying slightly, lightheaded from 
his injuries, from the hunger and the cold. And he felt stupid somehow. 
Insane thoughts slipped in, taunted him. What impossible luck was his 
once again! The fools left him alone with the Liguon! He should make 
another attempt at her life, he should do something, something. . . .
Instead he asked in a hoarse voice, “What does that mean, ‘no more 
harm?’”
“I am dead,” she replied simply. “You killed me.”
He continued to stare, stupidly, but now he was also freezing ice-
cold. His head—it was cold, and the cold rose in him, squeezing at his 
temples.
“I . . . don’t understand,” he said.
“Neither do I.”
“My dagger struck you in the heart!”
Her smoky sorrowful eyes watched him. “Yes. And my heart no 
longer beats. Your aim was true.”
The look of horror on his face was unspeakable. If his hands had been 
free, he would have made a sign of the cross to ward himself.
After a long pause, he muttered, “Then it’s true, the Liguon are 
indeed unholy spawn of the devil. . . . What are you? If you cannot die, 
what abomination makes you linger?”
But the Infanta continued to look at him. Her gaze, so glassy, yet 
intensely focused. As though she could use her will only to control one 
aspect of her body at a time.
“Why?” she said suddenly, repeating the same question that he had 
never answered. “Why do you hate us so? What has the Imperial Crown 
done to you . . . and yours? Tell me . . . please.”
Her words were gentle.
And it was the gentleness that suddenly touched him as nothing else 
had. A horrible impossible moment of remorse flickered on the surface of 
his thoughts. Here was the only daughter of his enemy—he had rid the 
world of the Imperial line, he was sure—and she was no different from her 
father whose hatred had destroyed Fiomarre. . . .
And yet. . . .
And for a moment only, watching her, seeing an undeniable shadow 
of innocence, his own chest constricted with a sensation of grave error, an 
error of judgment.
But he willed himself past it, past the pathetic weakness of remorse—
for he knew he was merely a man, not a murderer, and it was but the 
natural revulsion at the act of killing in cold blood, no matter how well 
justified, that now haunted him.
Something haunted him.
And so, to deny this weakness, he snarled at her, his words like a 
multitude of daggers hurled to riddle her chest with more intangible 
wounds. “Why not ask your Imperial Father, Your Imperial Highness?” 
His sarcastic emphasis on her title was deliberate, venomous.
But she did not react to his tone. “Why not tell me yourself?” she said 
mildly. “After what you did to me, do you not owe me at least a reason 
why?”
“I owe you nothing, Liguon bitch!”
For the first time her eyelids flickered in almost living reflex, as 
though attempting to blink away his epithet as something tangible that 
struck her.
“If you are—or had been until your traitorous act of last night—a 
Peer of the Realm, then you owe me the allegiance of loyalty, Marquis 
Fiomarre.” As she spoke, her peculiar stilted breathing—akin to furnace 
bellows, it occurred to him in that moment—managed to enhance her 
voice so that it rose and echoed in the chamber. “And if I or the Imperial 
Crown have done something to no longer warrant your loyalty, then it is 
your duty to speak the truth, to explain yourself—if not before man then 
before God!”
Her words ended as abruptly as they began, and her chest and lungs 
stopped moving, returning into their neutral suspended state. But their 
shocking power still resounded in silent waves through him.
“You know my name?” he said. A stupid thing to say, stupid. . . .
“I know it now. Would you not make the effort to find out the name 
of someone who hates you to the point of death?”
He frowned, his mind in a tumult.
“Well, then,” she continued. “Marquis, you will speak now. Enough 
righteous posturing. Tell me what has brought you to this hatred. For you 
and I are both in a situation of impossibility, and yet we may consider it an 
act of providence, an impossible fortunate opportunity to go beyond the 
limits of life and death.”
Despite the Infanta’s stilled face the expression of her eyes was alive, 
was burning.
And prompted by the nature of her expression, by the impossibility 
indeed of their situation, Fiomarre told her.
“My Lord, Father!” Beltain said in a loud voice that was at the same time 
carefully controlled and devoid of emotion.
He entered the Duke’s chambers in a brisk walk, holding himself well 
and with an upright military bearing. He had no doubt he had successfully 
concealed the severe pain and the pulling stiffness of his muscles, still sore 
and aching all over. Yet the effort cost him, for his face remained a fixed 
mask, with hollows that sank deeper than usual between his elegant 
cheekbones and angular jaw.
“Forgive me for entering unannounced, Father, but I have news. 
Important news and an explanation at last—an explanation of what is 
happening!”
“And what is happening, boy?” said Hoarfrost. He was seated at a 
large mahogany table with a well-worn polished surface on which were 
spread out armies of miniature painted soldiers in formation. With one 
hand he was arranging several tiny figures in a double marching line, two 
abreast. His face was averted, so that Beltain could only see the back of 
his head, the terrifying matted tangle of hair, bits of lake weed, and clotted 
old blood. . . . He was never going to change out of that filthy torn blue 
surcoat, damaged hauberk, and undershirt of his, nor clean himself up. . . . 
What was the point?
The reek in the room had not increased, because of the one partially 
broken window, the missing glass of which allowed wintry air to enter and 
vent the worst of the stench. It also allowed small flurries of snow to pile 
near the windowpane and swirl in eddies deeper into the room.
It was infernally cold here. Not a living man’s proper quarters.
Yet Beltain preferred this biting late afternoon cold to the stench of 
death.
Taking a deep breath of cold, he related the news of the Royal Decree 
that the King’s Herald had proclaimed in town. A copy of the same Decree 
was now in his hand, crisp rolled parchment, with the seal of the Kingdom 
of Lethe, meant for the Duke’s own eyes.
Beltain offered the parchment to his father.
Hoarfrost had listened to the explanation with a blank face, and an 
occasional shifting of his stance in the chair, moving his upright back for 
better balance. He did not blink, hearing of Death halting all acts of dying 
in the world until a Cobweb Bride is found. But when he heard of the 
Royal urging—nay, order and command—to all maidens of marriageable 
age, at least one per family, to make way to the Northern Forests in search 
of Death’s Keep, then Hoarfrost reacted.
“So! A missing Cobweb Bride is the reason I’m still here in this 
mortal coil, eh?” he said, with a whistling hiss-intake and exhalation of air 
in his pierced chest.
And as Beltain watched him, the parchment still held in a proffered 
hand, Hoarfrost began to laugh.
Duke Ian Chidair shook like a great hollowed log, gasping spurts of 
air in chuckles, then followed up with a deep roar.
“A Cobweb Bride!” he bellowed. “He wants his Cobweb Bride! 
Well, damn him to hell and back again, but he will not have her!”
Beltain stilled to the point of holding his breath.
“And who’s this Cobweb Bride anyway?” Hoarfrost continued, 
wheezing with chuckles. “Is she a fine bit of skirt, a young lusty woman of 
flesh and blood, with a solid pair of tits a man can hold on to, and a 
healthy rump to fondle? Or is she a monstrosity like myself, dead but not 
quite? And in either case, what does Death, that cold bastard, intend to do 
with her? Wed and bed her? Beget little dead whelps, eh? What kind of 
bloody idiocy is this?”
“She . . . could be anyone,” Beltain said, holding back his facial 
muscles from moving into a frown. “The Royal Decree urges all 
marriageable women who might possibly fit the position to—”
“Enough! I got the gist the first time you said it. I might be dead but 
I’m not deaf, boy! Now, let me see that.” And Hoarfrost grabbed the 
parchment out of his son’s hand.
Beltain watched as his father’s large, bloodless-grey hands with stiff 
thick fingers, torn fingernails and clotted dirt worked slowly to unroll the 
Decree. Another time he would have offered to assist, since Ian Chidair 
was ever clumsy with implements of the scribe’s art, loath to hold quill-
pen and paper. But now he stayed back, letting the Duke do it himself.
Hoarfrost perused the Decree, then made a spitting noise, and 
crumpled the parchment with one great meaty fist. “What does Lethe think 
I will do, comply with this idiocy, this drivel? Osenni is daft if he thinks 
I’ll give up this miracle of immortality and invincibility, this divine grace 
that has befallen me! Or, he’s a cow himself if he believes that I’d order 
my women and their girls to go to their deaths or on some wild goose 
chase, just so that the rest of the poor murdered fools and myself would 
get to croak. Hah!” And he banged the table so that some of the miniature 
soldiers scattered like colorful chips of wood.
“But—” said Beltain. “I don’t think I understand, Father. Wouldn’t it 
be the right thing to do, to humor Death’s request?”
Hoarfrost’s dark eyes seemed to move into a sharp focus, and he 
trained the heavy gaze of them on his son. “What? You want me to die, 
boy? Are you, my own son, my flesh and blood, telling me you want me 
dead and gone?”
“Not gone, never that! But I want—whatever is right. This is not 
natural, my Lord. It should be the way things had been . . . before.”
“Natural   be   damned!”   Hoarfrost’s   petrified   face   was   full   of 
unrelieved anger like a rattle filled with sand that would not look any 
different on the surface no matter how much you shook it. “What’s natural 
for a man in his prime to be sent to kingdom come from a cowardly strike 
in the back? I should’ve lived! I killed him first, in fair combat facing him 
squarely, and he was down. And then he came at me! What’s right about 
that, eh? If Death hadn’t decided suddenly he had an itch in his damned 
cold prick for a Bride, I’d still be alive now, a real man with warm blood 
in me! So then, I demand my time given back to me! And I will not give 
up what is mine, not ever again!”
Duke Ian Chidair paused, growing momentarily silent, while from the 
outside a strong gust of winter wind entered the icy chamber, pulling at his 
face, his hair, moving frozen filaments. . . .
“Cold . . .” he said then, turning his neck with an audible creak in 
order to turn his face to the window, speaking in a soft voice. Now that he 
spoke at a low volume, his chest’s whistling came more pronounced in the 
quiet. “I am cold, yes . . . and I don’t know it, don’t feel. It’s like I am 
already on the other side, seeing this world through a thick barrier. White 
as snow and thick as cotton. But . . . at least I am still here, even in part. 
Because what awaits me over there could be even colder. Death’s cold. I 
cannot . . . cannot bear to know. Not yet. . . . Not ever.”
“My father . . .” Beltain said. “If only I could give myself up in your 
stead. I am so sorry.”
Hoarfrost looked around, back at his son. “Nonsense, boy,” he said in 
a once more loud voice. “Your life is yours, and you should hold on to it 
as well as you can—while you can. And, don’t be sorry for me. Because, 
my loyal whelp, I am not going anywhere! You hear that? And you, you 
hear, Death, you old ugly whoreson? You will not have me!”
“What will happen?” Beltain said.
There was a very terrible pause as something, like mechanical gears, 
went into play; it pulled at the Duke’s frozen mask of a face, molded it 
into a perverse semblance of something that a living man would do 
naturally.
Hoarfrost smiled.
“I’ll tell you what. We’re going to have us a little war, a bit of 
military fun on Lethe’s behalf. Why, we’ll go patrolling the Northern 
Forests and catch us some pretty girls! That’s what we’ll do! Not a single 
one will get through, or I’m a lying sonofabitch!”
And as Beltain stared, knowing on some level that his father did not 
mean it, was only verbally baiting him, Hoarfrost roared, “By God and the 
Devil, It’s hunting time! The season to snag me a ripe and willing Cobweb 
Bride!”
Chapter 6
There were few things more unbearable, Percy thought, than having to 
trudge in the winter snow along a rutted road between towns, in the middle 
of nowhere, holding a heavy basket, headed to one’s certain freezing death
—and having to listen to Jenna Doneil’s teeny, slightly flat voice singing 
the same damn verse of a “song” she made up, over and over, for the last 
several miles.
“Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride!
Come and lie by my side!”
And again:
“Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride!
Come and lie by my side!”
And then, repeat this every two beats per measure, taking a step per 
beat, and occasionally skipping and hopping like a bunny rabbit, in-
between the verses.
Lord, if you hear me, take me now.
And failing that, Death, if you hear me, and I am your Cobweb Bride, 
now would be a good time.
The road stretched and curved occasionally, around bends and up 
small hillocks, so that they had to make the extra effort to walk on an 
incline, their breaths coming in curls of white vapor in the cold air. At 
such times Jenna would forget her song and trudge uphill, but still with a 
sprightly bounce in her walk. Percy meanwhile followed her less 
exuberantly and in secret relief at the temporary silence.
She didn’t have the heart to tell the child to hush—it was a good 
thing Jenna was in such high spirits, early in the journey. Very likely she 
had no true understanding of what potential difficulties lay ahead of them.
The first of such difficulties was looming fast. They would have to 
stop and rest at some point. Have a bite to eat. Answer the call of nature. 
But where, and how? It was not a good time or place to stop and sit around 
in the snow. And as the day advanced, there would be a further decrease in 
temperature and a hardening in the wind, even a possible blizzard. Already 
the   sky   looked   angry   grey   up   around   the   edges   where   darker 
monochromatic clouds moved in. By the time it got dark, there would be 
some ugly winter weather. And they were still more than halfway from the 
nearest town of Tussecan.
Percy considered how to gently suggest to Jenna that they should 
walk faster without alarming the girl.
Another possibility was to hitch a ride to town with some kind 
stranger. Only, for the last hour of walking they had seen almost no one 
else on the road—a very occasional bundled figure of a shabby homeless 
straggler, or a clattering donkey cart often rigged on sleds, whose driver 
did not look altogether friendly. In fact, being wary of possible dangers of 
another kind, Percy made sure they stayed well away from the road or 
even concealed themselves behind trees for most of the passerby traffic.
“Percy!” said Jenna all of a sudden, as they carefully came down an 
icy incline. “I’m cold . . . and I kind of need to pee.”
Percy stopped.
“All right . . .” she said. “Let’s see, hmm . . . All right, let’s walk a 
little bit more until we see a thicker roadside hedge.”
“All right,” Jenna said, echoing her. And they continued for about a 
quarter of a mile until there was sufficient growth alongside the road that 
could properly conceal a person.
“Go on behind that one. And I’ll stand here and watch the road,” 
Percy said.
“You promise you won’t go away and leave me here, Percy? 
Promise!” said the girl in a sudden intense voice. The expression of her 
eyes was startling in its vulnerability.
Percy pretended not to notice and shook her head with a teasing half-
smile. “What kind of ninny do you take me for? We need to stick together. 
I’d be very afraid to go off on my own, to be all alone, especially now, so 
of course I won’t go away. I need you, silly.”
“Oh . . .” said Jenna, and apparently reassured, clambered behind a 
snowed-over hedge.
Percy stood in place, stomping her feet to keep moving, glancing 
around at the overbearing whiteness of the snowscape around them. She 
considered if maybe now was a good time to open the basket and see what 
was there to munch on. Except, she was really loath to remove her 
relatively warm mittens and dig around in there with fingers that would 
become icy in no time.
On the other hand, her stomach was rumbling, it was past midday 
mealtime, and eating would be something that can warm a person up—she 
remembered hearing this somewhere.
“Oh, confound it . . . fire is something that can warm you up,” she 
muttered to herself out-loud. “Fire, we need warmth and fire. . . .”
“Huh?” came Jenna’s voice from the hedge. “Did you say something? 
You’re not leaving, are you? I’m almost done, please, I’m coming out!”
“Take your time,” replied Percy.
At that point she heard the rumbling clatter of yet another cart 
coming on the road from behind them, and the sound of several boisterous 
voices. It was coming from back where they had come from, Oarclaven.
Percy considered dashing behind the hedge, but in that moment Jenna 
appeared, straightening her skirts and patting down her kerchief. “All 
done,” she said brightly, then skipped and hopped in place, thumping 
down the snow with her thick wrapped shoes.
The cart was slow-moving. Percy watched it come rolling from the 
distance, driven by a single large draft horse, and there were figures 
walking on either sides. They were all heavily bundled, and from the looks 
of it, all were wearing skirts.
As they approached, Percy and Jenna heard laughter and many 
female voices, chattering. What in the world? The cart was filled with 
young women. At least six were piled inside, their kerchiefs and hats 
clustered together from the distance and blending in like a bunch of 
brightly colored mushroom caps. Two more walked next to the cart.
When the cart was close enough to distinguish faces, the women 
suddenly started to wave and scream at Percy and Jenna in a sort of 
hysterical giggly chorus that only a bunch of barely pubescent girls could 
manage when they gathered together and things got too rowdy and fun.
“Oh, look!” Jenna said, perking up. “There’s Flor!”
And indeed, there was Flor Murel, Oarclaven’s best baker’s eldest 
daughter, a bright red shawl over her blond hair and dark coat, her bundled 
feet dangling from the cart, waving at them.
“Hey, Percy! Look, everyone, that’s Pur-seh-pho-neee Ayren! And 
Jenna! Jenna Doneil! Hellooooh there, Percy!” she exclaimed, her fine-
featured, pretty face flushed and rosy, and not a sign of the redness of tears 
around her eyes that they had seen on her earlier this morning through the 
bakery window.
The rest of the young women picked up the yelling and there were 
even whistling and catcalls. As Percy and Jenna stared in amazement, the 
cart slowed down, and the driver—a slightly older woman bundled in a 
very dirty-looking, ragged, brightly multi-colored woolen kerchief—
pulled up at the reins, saying “Whoa, Betsy!”
The great wheat-and-cream colored horse obeyed, and the cart came 
to a full stop only a couple of feet away from Percy and Jenna.
“Hello there, girls!” the woman driver said in a deep sonorous voice 
that immediately made Percy feel right at home. “Where are the two of 
you headed on such a cold day?”
Percy opened her mouth to reply, but once again Jenna was there 
first.
“We’re looking for Death in his Keep! And we’re gonna be Cobweb 
Brides!” Jenna exclaimed with the same level of cheer that someone 
would use to announce an outing to a fair to buy caramel apples.
“Oh, you are, are you?” said the woman, and her very dark eyes held 
a twinkle of amusement. “Well isn’t that a lucky coincidence, girls, 
because so are we! Cobweb Brides, the whole lot of us—myself excluded, 
of course, I’m just an old bag, here along for the ride. I’m Grial, by the 
way, from Letheburg. This here is my cart and my horse Betsy—never 
mind, yes, I know the name’s a bit odd and not very horsey at all—not 
Grial but Betsy I’m talking about—but she thinks she’s a cow and that’s 
her name, she tells me, so what can you do?—and so anyway, I’m just 
giving a ride to a couple of nice young ladies, and picking up some 
stragglers on the way. Do you realize that the road from Letheburg to here 
is practically crawling with all of you Cobweb Brides? Honest to 
goodness, you appear to be more plentiful than roaches. Much prettier 
than roaches, too, in most cases, I dare say—though it being winter and 
darn chilly, there aren’t that many roaches running out in the snow, so a 
person cannot properly compare. Now, if you ask me, those little pests are 
far smarter than you’n me. When it gets cold they naturally scamper off 
into warm hidey holes near chimneys and—”
Percy listened to the rolling flow of the woman’s words and felt a 
blooming of some kind of warm, comfortable feeling rise in her, so that 
for a moment she forgot the biting cold.
“But you know, I do tend to carry on a tad too much, till the cows 
come home and roost, or would that be chickens?” Grial said. “And so, let 
me ask you this, girls. Are you by any chance interested in traveling the 
rest of the way with us? The cart’s got room enough for most of you, and 
the rest can take turns walking beside it. We have plenty of food between 
all of us, and what better way to keep warm than huddle together in a nice 
pile of hay? So, what do you say?”
“Thank you, Ma’am, for your very kind offer,” Percy said. “I think it 
would be very nice, and I think we’d like that very much. Isn’t that right, 
Jenna?”
“Yes, Ma’am!” the girl exclaimed.
“Ah, wonderful!” Grial said, then turned around and motioned to the 
women in the cart. “All right, ladies, how about two of you hop on out and 
let these two poor dears have a chance to rest their feet for a couple of 
miles? We’re on rotation here, all proper and regimental. . . .”
And as two of the women started to scramble from their places in the 
cart, Grial turned again and said to Percy, “So, how long have you been 
walking now? Don’t tell me you’ve made it on foot all the way from that 
last town—what was its name, Oarclaven?”
“Yes, Ma’am, we have,” Percy replied, as she pushed Jenna up into 
the cart right next to Flor and then got in beside a thick-set girl with 
thoughtful grey eyes, in a plain brown wool coat and black shawl, whom 
she recognized also as a local from their parts. Her name was Gloria 
Libbin and she was the daughter of the town blacksmith.
“Hi, Percy . . .” Gloria said shyly. She was always a quiet one, and 
Percy didn’t know her all that well. However she smiled in reply.
“Hi, and very nice to meet you, I’m Lizabette Crowlé,” said another 
young woman from behind them, with a pretty, slightly sharp-nosed oval 
face, sitting deeper inside the cart, dressed in a nice burgundy coat with 
proper buttons, and an almost stylish mauve hat. “That’s Crowlé with an 
accented ‘e.’” At which point the other remaining girl in the cart giggled 
and rolled her eyes. This last one appeared younger than all of them—
indeed, not too much older than Jenna—with a round face, a blunt up-
turned nose, and tufts of brown hair visible underneath her multi-colored 
woolen kerchief that she wore over a dirty-yellow coat.
“Hi, Percy, I’m Emilie, ’an there’s no accented ‘e’ or nuthin’ in my 
name, and my surname is Bordon. Pleased to meet you, my Pa is a swine 
breeder’n’herd down south, we’re not fancy folk. Oh, and hi, Jenna!”
The four girls walking beside the cart introduced themselves one by 
one. One of the two who had given up their seats to Jenna and Percy was 
Regata, a tall younger daughter of a Letheburg merchant, with a friendly 
unpresuming face, dressed in a warm-looking coat of forest green, with 
dark brown fur trim along the collar, and a cape-hoodlet on top, also fur-
trimmed, with a fine linen kerchief underneath. The other one to vacate 
her seat on their behalf was Sibyl, the kind-faced daughter of a tailor also 
from Letheburg, with lively eyes, the pale freckled skin and ginger brows 
of a redhead, and wearing a well-cut royal blue coat and hood, and a 
woolen mulberry scarf.
The remaining two girls who had been walking all along were Niosta 
and Catrine, two sisters from somewhere even farther down south than 
Letheburg; they didn’t say where and really weren’t all that sure. They 
were both heavily freckled and gawky-thin, their faces smudged, with 
weather-beaten tanned skin, and their expressions snide and street-smart. 
Their clothing consisted of worn flimsy footwear, drab wool coats with 
many tears, revealing in places the underneath-layers of homespun of 
indeterminate swamp-brown hues, and faded shawls that had seen better 
days and had holes worn to prove it. They frequently exchanged knowing 
glances, and gave Percy and Jenna some no-nonsense hard stares.
“All right, ladies, are we all ready to move on?” Grial said loudly. 
“Then we advance onward, I say! All men to the deck, starboard and 
portside! That is, all ye flaming cabinboys to the poop! Or is it 
legionnaires right foot forward and hold on to yer kilts? Oh, never mind! 
Whoa, Betsy!”
The Infanta watched with unblinking attention the strange hate-filled man 
who was the Marquis Vlau Fiomarre tell a peculiar story of grievances that 
made no sense to her, for they did not match any known history of this 
Realm.
“Fiomarre,” he said, turning his scalding dark gaze upon her. “We are
—or, have been—if not the most ancient, loyal, true, then surely one of 
the five such fundamentally noble families in the Kingdom of Styx, and 
rivaling any other in the Realm. And yet, through the cruel impossible 
whim of the Liguon Emperor, your illustrious damned father, we are 
destroyed. . . .”
This Fiomarre was a striking sight to behold, tall and proud of 
bearing despite his prison-mauled clothing, the bruises on his serious, 
once-handsome face lending an enhanced air of nobility to his deep fierce 
tone of voice. He might have been misguided but appeared earnest and 
somehow wild.
And his eyes—they were dark and horrible.
Although the Infanta felt nothing in actuality—saw the world as 
though the light and all things contained in it came to her from a hazy 
distance of thick layers of cotton—she could still experience a twinge of 
something, a last vestige of living curiosity that surfaced past the thick 
dullness of apathy.
He had killed her.
As she watched his eyes, she remembered over and over that terrible 
focused moment of sensory awakening, for there could be no other words 
for it, an awakening before oblivion.
That night, as she had sat on her silver chair in the center of the great 
Hall, trembling with her usual anemic malaise and exhaustion, listening in 
all effort of politeness to the endless drone of congratulations, growing 
dizzy with the visual and auditory assault, she felt herself beginning to 
disappear. . . . There had been snatches of color, bejeweled fabric, powder 
glittering on wigs, the stifling weight of her own wig and the Crown, 
voices raised, smiling faces of nobility as they bowed before her, knelt, 
leaned, nodded, lips moving like flapping marionettes. . . . And suddenly, 
there he was. He stood out from the rest of the carousel in her vision by 
the nature of his stillness. For he was motionless, next in the greeting line 
after some fluttering satin figure of a retreating countess.
He just stood there. He never bowed. Even before he had taken out 
the knife, she remembered a strangely invigorating second of sight—the 
sight of his intense, impossible dark eyes.
And then he moved forward, and there was an elongated shape of 
steel in his graceful hands—which for a moment she thought would turn 
out to be some kind of impromptu gift, which in a sense, it had—and he 
neared her closer than anyone had ever done, any stranger, and there was 
fast movement, then a shock of sharp indescribable pain. . . .
Then, silence.
A silence during which the winter wind outside stopped, and the 
Silver Hall and all in it winked out of existence into nothing.
She was nothing.
And then, strangely, everything came back. The turmoil, the tumult, 
brilliant candlelight in the chandeliers, his screaming contorted face, the 
guards, the madness.
Only—it was all different. For, she no longer felt it. The thickness of 
distance was upon her.
No more pain. The knife in her heart sat as though it was in its proper 
sheath. Her heart itself was silent. Her blood gushing forth, leaving her, 
was like someone else’s rain beating upon an indifferent shuttered 
window. She was now an observer of her own self, not a participant.
And amid the thickness, the apathy, the suspension of being and non-
being, there was one thing left to her.
The need to know why.
Why this stranger did what he did. Why-what-who was he?
For, his act of intensity had forged a strange bond.
Whatever happened in the several long hours following, in the 
endless-seeming bowels of hell that was that night, the ministrations and 
the shock, the frightened weeping and condolences, the interminable 
weight of time itself—she thought of this need for why.
She had to know. While she was still here, while she still could. . . .
And so, she said to him who stood now before her, “Proceed. Tell me 
how your family was wronged by mine.”
For   several   long   moments   he   stared   at   her   as   though 
uncomprehending,  his loosely shackled hands lowered powerlessly, 
hanging before him in their chains. And then suddenly, with a guttural cry, 
he raised his arms, his face contorted, and he made a futile effort to pull 
the chains apart—all the while staring at her with pure black hatred.
“Filthy Liguon . . .” he whispered through gritted teeth.
“Yes,   I’ve   heard   this   already,”   she   said.   “You’re   becoming 
repetitious, Marquis. Have you nothing else to tell me but this feeble 
outpouring of black bile?”
His expression then was not bile but black fire.
“Oh, I have so much to tell, so much . . . where to begin? Well then, 
if it amuses you—or rather, despite your pleasure. Ten years ago is when 
it started. One summer day when my father, the honorable and generous, 
the faultless Marquis Micul Fiomarre was sitting in his green garden in our 
sprawling estate, enjoying the sun-drenched afternoon, with his wife, my 
mother, the Marquise Eloise, and his children. I remember it now like 
yesterday, branded in my mind, even though I was but a green youth—the 
dappled spots of sun and shade on the grass, the perfect breeze stirring soft 
leaves, the cool juice of sweet peaches and cherries in an iced glass. I 
remember my father laughing at something, his olive skin, his whiteness 
of teeth, the funny thick black mustache we used to tease him about, his 
white shirt stained with garden dirt. My mother was laughing too, and 
myself and my brothers and my one sister, rolling on the grass. It was a 
moment of heaven.
“And then the men came. They were a company of armed guards 
dressed in the Imperial uniform. They marched past the protesting 
household servants, past the steward and our own house guards, filling the 
garden. Suddenly everything went cold. My father—I can see his face 
now, it changed from friendly, open, warm, to a perfect blank. Expression 
locked down into nothing. My father was already gone before they even 
took him away.
“They took him away?” the Infanta said softly. “Why? What was 
said? What reason given?”
“Nothing! The hell began in that moment when my father questioned 
them and their captain announced a charge of Grand Treason against the 
Crown, and that he was commanded to come with them and obey without 
any other recourse. My father asked what did they mean, what had he 
done? His face was in shock, his eyes confused, completely innocent—
anyone could see. My mother had stood up also, and questioned them, in 
tears. My brothers and I—there were no words, we froze, became stone. 
Our little sister Oleandre, who was half my age, began to bawl.
“But they did not give an answer. Instead, they threw my father down 
on the ground, and there was a table upturned, I remember, and all our 
glasses went crashing, and the juices spilled orange-red on the grass. Then 
they bound him, and they half-dragged, half-carried him away, even 
though he did not even struggle and would have walked. That was the last 
time I ever saw my father. I remember the back of his dark head, his wavy 
locks of hair that would often stick out funny. . . .”
Fiomarre began to pace, back and forth a few steps, for his feet also 
bore chains and he could not walk properly.
The Infanta listened.
“Soon after my father had been taken,” he continued, “we received an 
Imperial Sealed Letter of Condolence to the family, and within it we 
learned of his . . . execution. We still did not know why. What had he 
done? What, in the name of God? At least the Fiomarre were not stripped 
of noble rank for whatever it is my father had ‘done.’ The Letter of 
Condolence to my mother was a small useless Imperial gesture of 
recompense for the death of her beloved husband and our cherished father. 
We inquired formally, first in Charonne, at the Royal court of Styx, but the 
Ixion King—the elder, since back then it was King Claudeis and his sickly 
Queen Rea, while their son Augustus was only a tiny babe—the Ixion 
King did not know, or did not care to know, and we were referred higher 
up, to the Emperor.
“A month had passed during which my mother had become very ill. 
She remained thus, weak and ailing for nearly a year. We were also 
shunned by the neighbors, for rumor of the Fiomarre disgrace had spread 
like wild creeping ivy though the countryside, and indeed, all of Styx. No 
one wanted to have anything to do with us, the noble Peers in the city of 
Charonne had closed their doors, and even in our own neighborhood there 
were no longer any friendly visits, none from our distant cousins, and not 
even from the most solicitous kindly old widows who had been friends 
with my mother.
“As for my brothers and sister and myself, we were also shunned and 
mocked in the village—our own village that we owned! Even our tenants, 
those whose landlord my father had been, they too looked askance at us. 
The priest would not come to perform Mass in the traitor’s family chapel, 
and my mother took us to the back of the village church every Sunday 
where we sat alone in the pew. Even some of the servants left our 
employ.”
“I am sorry . . . for you, the children, and your mother, and yes, for 
him, your father . . .” the Infanta said.
But he glared at her.
“Your belated remorse doesn’t bring back the lives. Not only my 
father. Let me continue, and you listen, Liguon! This went on for almost 
five years. We grew, and my eldest brother, Ebrai, who was now the new 
Marquis, was of an age to be received at Court. Ebrai was passionate, the 
most passionate of us all, and he had carried the burden of half a decade of 
loss and pain and humiliation. When he left for your accursed Silver 
Court, it was with the intent to confront the Emperor and ask for justice 
and recompense, and an explanation for his father’s fate. Even though my 
mother wept and begged him on her knees not to do anything rash that 
would put him into peril or offense of the Crown, Ebrai was not to be 
moved.
“He departed for Court, and was gone. And we heard nothing, for a 
very long, nigh interminable two months. And then, an Imperial 
messenger came—a baron whose name I don’t recall, for I only recall his 
careful pitying expression as he talked very quietly with my mother. He 
explained that my brother—my foolish passionate Ebrai—had spoken out 
against the Crown, fought a duel with another high ranking nobleman, 
killed him, and had been detained. He was imprisoned in the Palace, 
waiting for Imperial judgment for both treason and murder.”
“I had not known any of this at all,” the Infanta said. “I do not recall 
ever hearing of your brother or your father’s names and their crimes. . . .”
“Ah, the ignominy of the despised few. . . . It doesn’t surprise me,” 
he replied with a twisted smirk. “The Emperor’s only pampered whelp 
would not be informed of the dark things that take place in reality, under 
your nose, in the bowels of this accursed Palace.”
“But—” the Infanta said. “This is very strange and I simply do not 
see why my father—who is a very mild-mannered man if you only get to 
know him, despite the layers of rank that he must always wear—why he 
would order a death and an imprisonment where there was no just 
underlying cause. The late Marquis, your father and then your brother 
must have done something to provoke such treatment. There is the murder, 
as you say—”
“No!” His voice was again a fierce, mad, snarling thing. “Nothing! 
Nothing! They had done nothing! Listen to me, I am not done! Listen, you 
damned. . . .”
Fiomarre started to pace once again, periodically striking himself in 
the chest with his fists as he spoke, like a denizen of a mental asylum.
“My brother, who had supposedly fought and killed a Duke’s son or 
some other damned popinjay of fine blood, did nothing of the sort. The 
name of this supposed victim has been withheld from us. And when my 
mother arrived in grief and madness to see the Emperor the following 
month, to beg for her son’s life, she was received very coldly and briefly, 
and told by the Liguon to return home, with an absolute refusal to explain 
what actually happened. Furthermore, as my mother spent a few days in 
the Palace, she heard some gossip that the victim of my brother was in fact 
alive, merely wounded, and recuperating nicely at his own ancestral estate. 
So, there had been no murder committed, and none to be punished for!”
“Isn’t dueling illegal under the Crown?”
“Illegal, but not a mortal offense!”
A pause.
And then he continued. “My mother suffered a relapse of her illness, 
and at first could not even find it in herself to move from her Palace guest 
bed, much less travel. She attempted one more time to have an Imperial 
Audience, to see the Empress this time, to crawl on her knees and beg for 
mercy for her foolish son. But the Empress, your Imperial mother, was too 
busy apparently and would not see her. And so, my own poor mother had 
to return home to the Fiomarre estate, with nothing, and even less than 
nothing—no news of my brother’s fate.”
“What . . . happened then?” Claere Liguon said very softly. In the act 
of sympathetic listening she had grown even more still, if such a thing 
were possible for a dead woman.
“What happened was another death. Another Imperial Letter had 
come to us, hand-delivered by a different noble flunky of the Emperor—
this one’s face—I don’t even have a memory of him at all. And this time 
there was no Condolence, not even the semblance of sympathy from the 
Crown. Only a cold announcement of my brother’s execution, coupled 
with a warning that Fiomarre will be stripped of their rank and lands if 
they transgressed against the Crown ever again.
“My mother was confined to bed. She remained there for the next two 
years, slowly fading. Meanwhile I was the new Marquis. I had suddenly 
become an Heir where I had no interest or expectation of this dubious 
honor, ever. My brother’s death was an unthinkable. No, not Ebrai. He 
was going to live forever. . . .”
“How she must have suffered, your mother . . .” the Infanta said. Her 
voice was labored as always—even and almost monotone, as her forced 
breath came like clockwork. And yet there was a hint of something new in 
it, while her blank gaze never stopped observing his face.
“Fortunately, her suffering is over. She was found lying in her bed, 
cold, one morning in the autumn of the third year since the loss of my 
brother. I was away on some meaningless estate business and it was my 
younger brother, Celen, who found her thus. My sister ran for the 
priest. . . . In death, I am told, Eloise Fiomarre was like the holy Icon of 
the Mother of God. It’s the only thing I can say in consolation. And in her 
fingers she held an old letter from my father. . . . We buried her in the 
family crypt with that letter, and with all of my father’s old things we 
could find—since she would never again lie next to his body. I don’t doubt 
it was her wish.”
The Infanta’s breath came in a strange shuddering exhalation, as 
though she was going to say something, but held the words back.
“Meanwhile,” he continued, his face growing weary suddenly, “my 
sister, Oleandre, had grown to be a lovely maiden, of an age to marry. But 
because of our present state of disgrace, Oleandre remained alone and 
unclaimed by any neighbor nobility. No one wanted to align themselves in 
marriage with the despised Fiomarre orphans. The one family that had 
once expressed to my father an interest in betrothing their son to Oleandre, 
went back on their word. Their strapping son married another young 
damsel of a Styx family with far less worth . . . but also far less blemish. 
Indeed, it’s not a difficult thing to find any family with less blemish than 
ourselves, these days. . . . Oleandre plans to take the vows soon, and I 
haven’t the heart to dissuade her from the nunnery.
“My youngest brother, Celen, is all that’s left. And the youth expects 
to—God only knows what he can do now. To enlist, maybe, somewhere, 
anywhere, for he has a death wish—but he certainly would die first before 
joining the Imperial military. He told me, when I was about to make this 
final trip, that he would go in my place, or we go together . . . And I didn’t 
let him. At least one of us must remain in this world.”
“What a truly tragic story, Marquis.”
He looked at her in a sudden flaring of disdain. “You call me 
Marquis? I thought, daughter of Liguon, that I am a dead man without 
rank. Or is it that you make sport of me now, before I go to my 
execution?”
The Infanta slowly moved forward in her seat. “If you are a dead 
man, then what am I?”
“That, I still don’t know,” he said. “But I know that what I am now is 
nothing. Fiomarre is nothing. And thus, nothing matters anymore.”
“Nothing . . .” the Infanta echoed quietly. “It is what I am also. We 
are suddenly much alike.”
And then, unexpectedly, she rose from her seat. She stood before 
Vlau Fiomarre who towered over her, despite the added height of her tall 
wig. The grey daylight came in to illuminate half of her face, leaving the 
rest in shadowed silhouette. He could see her pale bloodless lips, her great 
smoke-hued eyes.
Fiomarre involuntarily took a step back, his chains clanging.
“Are you afraid of me?” she said softly.
“I . . . don’t know.” His answer came softly also, after a delay.
“Your story is tragic and for that reason impossible. I want to believe 
you but it simply cannot be, such horrible injustice.”
“Believe what you will!” he exclaimed. “I am done speaking, Liguon. 
You’ve had your amusement. Now, take my life or have me tortured first, 
and be done with it.”
“But you are not done hating me,” she replied. “And—I must have 
the truth.”
Fiomarre looked down at her with black fire in his eyes. “I will be 
done hating you when the stars fall and the world ends, and no sooner!”
“You are unaware, I see,” she replied. “For, the world as we know it 
has ended. Death and all dying has been stopped. I cannot take your life 
even if I wanted to, for none of us can die now, only malinger. . . .”
And as he watched her in slowly dawning horror, she called out 
loudly, “Guards!”
Immediately two armed guards, who had been standing ready outside 
her chamber’s door, entered, coming to attention.
“There will be no execution,” the Infanta told them. “Take this man 
to apartments appropriate to a guest of the Crown, and do not mistreat him 
ever again. Remove his chains. Have proper clothing and food brought to 
him. I will have need of him shortly.”
The expression on Fiomarre’s face was one of incredulity. And then 
it was replaced by suspicion, and again the hatred flared.
“Do what you will, daughter of the devil! Play your devious game, 
but you cannot touch me, not ever again, none of you, Liguon!” He spat 
the words out angrily, as the guards came to stand on both sides of him 
uncertainly, with suspicious looks.
“Unchain him,” the Infanta repeated.
“Your—Imperial Highness, the keys—I haven’t the keys here, Your 
Imperial Highness, they are in the prison below,” one of the men said. “It 
wasn’t expected that they be required, and it’s always a precaution to not 
have the keys, so as not to give the dangerous prisoner an additional 
chance to escape. . . .”
“Enough. Go get the keys,” she said.
The guard started, but immediately complied, hastening out, while 
the other remained in place, sheepish.
“Am I no longer a prisoner, then?”
“No.”
Fiomarre was staring at her with a locked-down, no longer readable 
expression. Yet at the faintest edges of it, there was that same incredulity 
and just possibly, mockery.
But the Infanta had already turned away. Moving slowly like a 
puppet, she returned to her chair, sank down like a weight of stone. From 
there her voice came, toneless and yet empty now of the last vestiges of 
curiosity, or even that parody-shadow of life that somehow animated her.
“You are free . . .” she said. “If you have any honor, you will stay 
here in the Imperial guest apartments, and wait for the results of my 
investigation. That is—if there is that much honor left in you, of the 
ancient noble Fiomarre, as you claim to be. . . . And if not, you may 
simply go. You are . . . free.”
And she went silent.
Fiomarre stood, stricken by something.
“Liguon . . .” he said. “Upon my word of honor, I will stay.”
Josephuste Liguon II, Emperor of the Realm, could not sleep. It was the 
second night since the killing of his daughter. And although the first one 
was spent sleepless, in a kind of powerless torpor of psychological 
devastation, seated on the Throne in the Silver Hall next to the equally 
broken Empress, and the day that followed was such that no words were 
adequate to express anything, nor truly to comprehend—despite the 
weariness, and the compounding overload of insane events, there was no 
way to release the mind to sleep’s oblivion. . . .
Everything was impossible, and suddenly hardly anything mattered. 
Human reactions no longer had a place.
Had there been a clear-cut death of the Infanta, the Emperor would 
have known how to act. He would have gone mad with anguish as would 
any father in his place. He would have grieved. He would have 
immediately punished the offender.
But there was no death here. There was murder, yes. Loss, yes, 
terribly so, for Claere his child was no longer; she was gone, and 
something else  was now inhabiting her damaged shell of a body, 
something else was in her place.
And yet there was no ending. No completion, not even a way to 
complete the course of grief. And no way to properly punish the murderer, 
except for the application of prolonged and endless pain without actually 
damaging his body to the extent of death, at which point he too would 
become someone else and in that manner escape his punishment. Besides, 
Claere herself had requested, in a strange act of mercy, clemency for the 
murderer.
None of it made any sense, the Emperor thought.
For, in this suspended state, the world seemed to have taken a breath 
and was holding it. Nothing was ended, nothing could be over.
No rest . . . no peace.
And so, tormented by the bizarreness of it all, looking back on what 
had come to pass, and imagining impossible variations of what was yet to 
come, Josephuste Liguon II lay awake in his luxurious bed. At his side 
was his Imperial spouse who also seemed merely to lie motionless in 
empty silence. He knew the Empress was awake like himself, for her 
breath came in occasional shudders, and he sensed she was holding back 
sobs.
Eventually, toward dawn, sleep must have come after all, for the next 
thing the Emperor knew was a very gentle and polite touch on his shoulder 
by his Valet of the Chamber. The Valet had the singular Honor and 
Privilege of being permitted to touch Their Imperial Majesties, once per 
day only, if it were absolutely necessary to interrupt Imperial slumber.
Today the Valet of the Chamber used his Privilege just after dawn. 
His Imperial Majesty had an urgent demand for a formal Audience from 
the emissaries of Balmue, of all things. This was not to be put off, for all 
of a sudden they were leaving.
The Emperor groaned, squinting at the faint light of dawn coming 
through the slit in the window drapery and the newly lit roaring fire in the 
ornately framed fireplace. He rose, sat up in the grandiose bed, throwing 
one glance at the distant and motionless figure of the Empress at his far 
left, then nodded his permission. And immediately a cadre of silent and 
skillful servants went to work on getting him presentable for the day.
He had managed to avoid seeing the Balmue diplomats all of the last 
day, being naturally preoccupied as he was, but obviously politics could 
not take a break. Besides, the Balmue had been scheduled for an Audience 
with him a morning ago.
The Emperor drank a hot cup of breakfast tea, tasting nothing of the 
usually fragrant tea leaves, and refused his favorite crumpets and pastry.
Within a half hour he was in his Private Audience Chamber, dressed 
in a coat and pants of pale saffron silk and a platinum powdered wig, 
seated upon red cushions on a carved wooden throne of dark cherry wood. 
Just steps behind him, in a velvet draperied secret alcove were hidden the 
Duke Claude Rovait and the Duke Andre Eldon, of Plaimes. Both were 
clandestine  Imperial  advisors, here upon the Emperor’s  command, 
installed in secret in order to listen in on the upcoming Audience and later 
to interpret.
As soon as his men were in place and the drapery fell to the parquet 
floor to conceal them, the Emperor made a hand motion and the 
Chamberlain on the other side of the doors announced the Balmue 
diplomats—the Marquis Nuor Alfre and the Viscount Halronne Deupris, 
Peers of the Domain.
Two men entered.
They were clad formally for an audience, in the colors of Balmue, 
silver and sienna brown. The older, a ruddy-brown haired and bearded 
lord with weathered skin and a tall, lean built, was the Marquis Alfre, 
ambassador of Balmue. At his side stood his aide, a shorter, youthful man 
with a rounded, fair face and blond hair, the Viscount Deupris.
Both came forward and stopped the proper ten steps short of the 
Throne, then bowed with precision and remained thus until the Emperor 
indicated in a drained, powerless voice, “Rise, gentlemen.”
They straightened, and the ambassador spoke: “Your Imperial 
Majesty, we thank you for the Audience, on behalf of our liege Lord, His 
Royal Majesty, King Clavian Sestial of Balmue, Vassal of the Sovereign 
Rumanar Avalais of the Domain and its Territories.”
Marquis Alfre was an old-school diplomat, with many years of polish 
imbedded in him. But even he obviously found it difficult to follow a 
protocol under the current circumstances. He paused, cleared his throat 
and then said, “First, our sincere and profound condolences on Your 
Imperial Majesty’s familial . . . loss—that is, on the situation with the . . . 
assault on Her Imperial Highness.”
The Emperor did not blink, but his posture took on a particular 
stillness, in which he was a statue of frozen winter stone. And for a long 
moment he said nothing. He remembered, as an aside, that yes, the 
Balmue men had been present, had seen it all happen before their eyes. . . .
“Yes,” he said in a wooden voice, after a very long pause. “Your 
condolences are . . . appreciated.”
The Marquis exhaled his held breath, and so did the younger 
Viscount at his side. And then at last they got down to business.
“Our apologies, but the reason for disturbing Your Imperial Majesty 
at such an early hour,” said Marquis Alfre, “is that we have been 
summoned to return immediately to our homeland. Unfortunately, we 
cannot extend our imposition upon your Imperial Hospitality for even an 
hour longer, and therefore this conversation must be brief while a more in-
depth discussion needs be postponed for a future visit.”
The Emperor nodded.
“Your Imperial Majesty,” the Viscount Deupris spoke for the first 
time. “I was asked to convey on behalf of His Royal Majesty King Clavian 
Sestial that Balmue is extremely interested in furthering our positive 
relations, in discussing the border access protocols, the expansion of trade 
treaty, and the exchange of resources. However, as a vassal member of the 
Domain, Balmue is constrained by any limits placed upon it by the 
Sovereign, as you are well aware. And one of such limits has just been 
enforced, according to the correspondence we received today from the 
court of Balmue, as forwarded from the Sapphire Court.”
“What is it? Speak clearly.” The Emperor was exhausted and 
therefore blunt.
“In short, we cannot agree to the trade expansion treaty as written,” 
Marquis Alfre said.
“Ah . . .” the Emperor sighed. “So, what did the Sovereign demand of 
your King now?”
“With deepest apologies, I was not informed of the details.” Marquis 
Alfre bowed again, lowering his gaze.
“Or you’re not at liberty to disclose, I know, I know. . . .”
“One thing I can reliably offer your Imperial Majesty at this point,” 
Viscount Deupris added, “is that because of the situation pertaining to the 
so-called cessation of death, many things are changed, and plans are . . . 
reconsidered.”
The Marquis threw the younger man a subtle look, as though he’d 
somehow said too much.
He then said, “Begging apologies once more for disturbing Your 
Imperial Majesty, but we must beg your leave to depart in haste. Is there 
anything—any words that Your Imperial Majesty would like to convey to 
our King?”
It hurt to think. The Emperor knew the beginnings of a headache 
encroaching, but he also knew he had to convey an effective parting tone.
“Tell your liege that Balmue remains our welcome neighbor. There is 
no reason the Realm and the Domain border access must be modified in 
the foreseeable future. I look forward to the continuation of our talks . . . 
despite these difficult times.”
The diplomats bowed once more, their expressions taking on a blank 
polite facade, underneath which was a hint of relief. And then they 
gracefully backed out of the chamber.
When the doors were shut behind them, the Emperor eased, resting 
the back of his bewigged head against the carved wood of the throne.
“Rovait, Plaimes, come forth. . . .”
The Imperial advisors moved the drapery aside and entered the 
chamber. Andre Eldon, the Duke of Plaimes was an elegant dandified lord 
at first glance, a man in his prime dressed at the height of fashion. 
However, few knew that he was an accomplished spy in the service of the 
Crown.
At his side, the bearded Claude Rovait, Duke of Rovait, was a more 
sedate elder figure, with more of a sharp military bearing. He too was 
deeply embroiled in the workings of the spy network that extended into 
the criminal underworld.
“So, what are your impressions?” the Emperor asked.
The Duke of Plaimes cleared his throat. “A lot of usual vacuous 
politeness, but the underlying tone is urgency. Obviously they were in 
haste to depart. Our contacts tell us that as of last night the Sovereign is 
suddenly in the process of repositioning her military forces all around the 
Domain. My suspicion is, within her structural framework Balmue is 
suddenly a pivotal point, since they share a border with us.”
“It has to be the direct result of death’s cessation,” said the Duke 
Rovait. “There is no other overt catalyst, we are told. Spain and France are 
a very remote possibility from beyond the Domain’s southern and western 
borders respectively, but there have been no particular exchanges between 
them recently to warrant such a movement of troops. Besides we share 
more western borders with France, our kinder neighbor, than does the 
Domain, and I do not think Louis XIV, le Roi Soleil, is interested in 
anything but decorating his beloved Palace at Versailles.”
“So, it is death, then . . .” the Emperor mused.
“Incidentally,” Rovait said, “I suspect the Balmue received their 
summons not from an express messenger but from someone local, 
working for their side. A plant. I think we are getting close to narrowing 
the short list of spy candidates that could be Domain plants, here in the 
Silver Court.”
“Excellent, continue working on that.”
“Majesty,” the Duke of Plaimes said, taking a step forward, then 
starting to pace. “I regret to bring this up, but . . . Fiomarre. What should 
he be told of—”
“What?” The Emperor interrupted harshly. And then he sat forward 
in the throne. “Oh God, not that name—I cannot bear to hear it, not now, 
not . . . yet. It is intolerable that we must discuss this now. . . .”
Saying this the Emperor rubbed his forehead with his hand, where the 
headache was now drilling deep into the bowl of his skull.
“Unfortunately I must send a message to him tonight. Micul Fiomarre 
will expect the regular carrier bird promptly,” said Andre Eldon of 
Plaimes.
“He does not know,” Duke Rovait added gently. “None of it. He and 
his eldest son, both of them. Ebrai has not been in contact with me for a 
fortnight, in fact.”
“Oh God!” The Emperor exclaimed, then groaned and put his head 
down in his hands. “Oh God, oh Lord of Heaven . . . Have mercy on your 
servant. Have mercy, mercy. . . . Fiomarre.”
And then Josephuste Liguon II, Emperor of the Realm, stood up on 
shaky feet, slowly came down the three stairs of the dais and paused 
before his two closest advisors.
“I cannot . . .” he began. “I don’t know how to deal with Fiomarre 
now—with any of them. Indeed, I cannot abide the sound of that name. It 
rings with madness inside my head!”
“A truly singular tragedy, indeed,” whispered the Duke of Plaimes, 
looking at his liege with sympathetic eyes.
“Your Imperial Majesty,” Rovait said, “I know how difficult it is for 
you, how intolerable, but Micul Fiomarre is our best man there, and my 
recommendation—for now, at least—is that he not be told at all. He is 
planted in such a sensitive position at the Sapphire Court that any jarring 
news of whatever nature might throw him off and blow his cover. As far 
as Ebrai, I will take care of letting him know, the next time he contacts 
me, and I will request that he holds off communicating any of it to his 
father.”
“I will not be able to look him in the face,” the Emperor said, 
beginning to pace slowly in a broken aimless circle. “Never again. Nor 
would I be able to bear seeing his face in turn. His son killed my daughter. 
Fiomarre the middle son, a madman, killed my beloved child!”
The two lords watched him carefully.
“Is there any precedent for this kind of thing in all of history of the 
Realm?” the Emperor whispered. “Is there a precedent on how to treat a 
decorated hero father when his son commits the act of a traitor?”
Silence.
“The tragedy is in the not knowing—on all sides,” Duke Rovait said.
“They are so deep undercover that the family could not be told 
without compromising them,” the Duke of Plaimes said. “Perverse 
circumstances, confound it! No one could account for the middle son 
reacting in such an extreme to the false story of his father’s so-called 
death, and then Ebrai’s fabricated death also. Who could have expected 
him to go so far overboard? Didn’t the lady mother receive a partially 
encrypted letter from Fiomarre the elder, explaining his situation? 
Confound it, indeed.”
“I cannot look at him when he comes home . . .” the Emperor 
continued to whisper. “Fiomarre. . . . How do I deal with him? How, oh 
God?”
“Who is to say what might happen, Majesty, by the time they do 
come home?” Duke Rovait spoke soothingly, watching the Emperor. “For 
the moment, all we can do is pray. And—avoid giving them any 
provocations and compromising them in the Domain.”
“Then . . . pray,” the Emperor whispered. “Pray with me, my lords. 
For strength, for justice. And . . . oblivion.”
Chapter 7
It was dawn, and pale twilight in the family chapel of the Chidair Keep. A 
solitary knight outfitted in full battle armor knelt before the altar, his dark 
brown-haired head bared, helmet under one arm, his gaze directed to the 
icons of the Child and the Mother of God and the Saints, bathed in soft 
candle-glow. They watched him back with mystery in their ancient faces, 
a choir of dark vulnerable eyes rendered in pigment, all trained on him.
“What must I do? Tell me . . .” he whispered to the images.
The answer came from the doorway of the chapel. “Beltain, my son, 
you must do what you always do—what is true to your gut and your 
spirit,” said the old priest, approaching the kneeling figure.
The son of Duke Ian Chidair turned his head slowly, revealing a 
drawn exhausted face, the effect of a probably sleepless night. And then he 
rose, armor creaking, made a sign of obeisance before the altar, and 
approached the priest.
“Good morning, Father Orweil. I am . . . about to be on my way.”
“I know,” the priest replied. “You are on  his  orders. And those 
unholy orders directly counter the Royal Decree.”
Beltain sighed. “You know about that too?”
“Everyone knows, my son. We are praying on your behalf and on 
behalf of the poor girls who are sacrificing their lives—their everything—
as even now they make their way here and then onward to the Northern 
Forest in search of Death’s Keep. The same girls whom you go to hunt.”
Father Orweil was a stooped old man, small and frail, his frame a 
desiccated bundle of twigs wrapped in monastic burlap, his eyes filmed 
over in the wrinkled face. Beltain Chidair towered over him. And when 
the priest reached out to take the knight’s large gauntlet-clad hands, it was 
like an oddly shrunken child holding the palms and fingers of a giant.
“I’ve made my decision, Father. Would you have me be forsworn?” 
Beltain said softly. In the soft twilight of the chapel his dark eyes had lost 
their slate-blue coloration and appeared nearly black, glittering with 
moisture.
“You have sworn to your father, the Lord and Duke of Chidair,” the 
priest said, still holding the younger man’s large hands in his frail own. 
“This one—he is not the same one to whom you pledged your loyalty, and 
you know it. Listen to your instincts, your heart!”
“I no longer know anything,” Beltain retorted, his expression 
hardening. “I—I have made a promise to him, and he is different, yes, but 
he is still my father. I will not be forsworn! And now, I must hasten to do 
my Lord’s bidding—the bidding of Duke Hoarfrost, who is still Lord 
Chidair, Lord of this Keep and of these lands, until Heaven takes him!”
And with those words, Beltain extricated himself from Father 
Orweil’s grasp and turned away, walking briskly out of the chapel. His 
metal boots and spurs rang loudly on the floor and the echoes arose 
against stone.
“But . . .” the old priest whispered in his wake. “But Heaven has 
already taken him.”
He was not heeded.
The forest was winter white. Silence, except for the occasional soft 
fluttering of tree branches as the weight of settling snow overcame them 
until they sprang back in rebellion, freeing themselves from the icy 
burden.
The young woman bundled in poor woolens made her way through 
the snowdrifts. She had lost the road and the smaller north-western path 
nearly an hour ago, and her small bag of belongings weighed heavily in 
her arms.
She was lost. North was somewhere ahead, and the forest not 
particularly thick. All she need do was keep going, she had been told. For 
the sake of your family, keep going. For the sake of those you love. Just 
don’t think and keep going; don’t think about freezing, about food, or a 
warm fire, or even a moment’s rest. Somewhere out there, he waited, 
Death, in his cold dark Keep.
Somewhere. . . .
It was getting colder and the morning had advanced well into the 
afternoon. Wading through the pristine blanket of snow, nearly up to her 
knees, she listened to the overwhelming winter silence, and occasionally 
in the distance she thought there came the howling of wolves.
A lump of alarm formed in her throat.
A sudden bird fluttered noisy wings and burst upwards. The woman 
gave a scream, gulping lungfuls of freezing air, then laughed out-loud at 
her own skittishness. She was a bit simple, but not too dense to recognize 
a harmless robin taking flight.
Then, there was another sound. She could not identify it immediately, 
and cried out “Hello? Who’s there?”
Her voice left a brief echo.
And then they descended upon her. A tall black warhorse burst from 
the shrubbery up ahead, bearing a knight, and from all sides came dark 
menacing figures clad in dull armor, carrying pikes, lances, and occasional 
swords. Blue surcoats fluttered against metal plate, and although the 
woman was not learned in such things, she thought she had seen this sky-
color somewhere and it had a significance.
But it was all afterthought, because foremost she felt terror.
“Halt!” the knight cried—even though there was no need and she had 
frozen already of her own volition, bending her shawl-wrapped head 
downward and simultaneously raising one hand up, as though to avoid a 
blow.
He was wearing a full suit of war mail, and his helmet visor was 
lowered so that she could see no face and thus could not judge his intent.
There was only the voice. And it was harsh, virile. Not particularly 
angry or threatening, but a man’s strong voice was plenty enough for her 
to cower.
“Please . . .” she managed to mumble. “Please don’t hurt me, 
M’Lord, I’m just passin’ on through, that’s all.”
“What have we got here, eh?” said one of the men on foot closest to 
her, and neared her, grabbing her firmly by the arm until she went limp 
with terror. “Who are you, girl? Well, speak up, so the Lord can hear.”
“I’m . . . I’m Annie.”
“What are you doing here, Annie?” another man said, not ungently, 
coming from behind her. Neither one of them were leering nor acting like 
the drunken louts she was used to avoiding in her town, but the woman did 
not see, because she was staring in agony of terror at the ground, at the 
beaten-down white snow, no longer pristine. . . .
“I. . . .” She could not answer, for her breath was caught in her throat, 
and her lungs suddenly refused to expand and take in the next breath.
“Are you on your way to be a Cobweb Bride?” The same male voice 
sounded suddenly from above, and she knew it was the dark mounted 
knight speaking.
“Yes, sir . . . M’Lord . . .” she managed. “I suppose I’m that, if Death 
think ’e might want me, that is.”
“In that case, Annie, you’ll have to come with me.”
And before she could whimper in protest, the two men closest to her 
took hold of her, and then she was pulled along and eventually lifted with 
ease to lie across the saddle. She was held tightly.
Then there was movement underneath, and crashing sounds of tree 
branches all around, so that echoes seemed to fill the forest. Annie began 
to struggle against the solid rock, the metal-clad body behind her, feeling 
herself like a sack of potatoes, but it was too late.
“Please, no!” she cried, “I gotta be going, please let me go, I ain’t 
done nuthin’ wrong, please—”
But the grip of powerful hands around her only tightened, and the 
forest rushed by.
By mid-morning, the Emperor’s splitting headache had turned into a 
raging beast of a migraine. Less than an hour after the Balmue envoys had 
left the Silver Court, Josephuste Liguon II received another urgent request 
for an Audience—this one from his daughter.
He attended her immediately of course, in her own quarters. 
Squinting from the agony in his head coupled with sleeplessness, he 
entered with slow paces so as not to collapse, then sat down heavily in a 
chair. Two servants offered a footstool to prop up his feet, and pillows for 
his back, while Doctor Belquar brought a foul-tasting but effective elixir 
to imbibe, and a hot and palate-cleansing cup of tea to follow.
The Infanta had been seated upright as a post in her usual chair near 
the window. As soon as she saw her father, however, she stood up and 
approached, then paused, dissolving into her customary stillness several 
feet away, waiting for the fussing servants to be done.
The Emperor rubbed his forehead while the room seemed to spin 
around him. He watched his daughter’s once-pristine court dress stained 
with old blood and her mechanical movements with the same cold horror 
that had been eating at him all this time, and had only temporarily shifted 
to the background of his other sensations.
At last he waved for the servants to be gone and the room emptied. 
The bitter elixir he’d drank still burned the back of his throat and so he 
sipped the scalding tea once to wash away the taste, then put down his cup 
that clattered with porcelain fragility against the saucer in his trembling 
hands.
“Thank you . . . Father,” Claere Liguon said. “For . . . coming here to 
see me.”
“My dear child,” he replied in a rusty voice, breaking into a cough. 
“What is it, what did you want to see me about? Are . . . you—that is, are 
you feeling—I mean, there is no . . . discomfort?”
She stood in silhouette against the pale winter light of the window. 
For a moment, she said nothing. And then, “My Father, I must leave you 
and Mother now. I must go and offer myself to Death who waits in the 
Northern Forest.”
“But,” the Emperor said, knowing that his words were in so many 
ways ridiculous. “But . . . really, you cannot mean it? I didn’t think you 
meant it, my dearest, what you said about going, that is. Must you go . . . 
so soon?”
“If I am Death’s destined Bride, then there is no time to lose. The 
world waits.”
The headache receded and sobering cold rushed to the forefront again 
in his mind—cold, fearful, wrenching anguish.
“You would really do this?” he whispered, leaning forward, lifting 
his silk stocking-clad feet off the footstool so that they could be better 
anchored on the floor—anything to ground him.
“Yes. . . .”
“But—how?”
And the dead one approached him, and then reached out with one 
winter-cold hand and laid it on his cheek.
The Emperor felt an icy shock.
“Father,” she said, leaning over him, while the faceted jewels in the 
Crown that still rested on top of her grand wig caught the faint light from 
the window and suddenly sparkled above her like a halo. “I require 
nothing but a fast carriage. And . . . I want Fiomarre—the man who struck 
me—to be in that carriage as I travel to my final place. He is bound to me 
somehow—it is his own making—and I have no way to explain, except 
that I know he must be with me now.”
“What?” the Emperor exclaimed, falling backwards once more 
against the pillows. “Oh, no, no . . . God, no,” he muttered, closing his 
eyes and wrinkling his brow, while rubbing the bridge of his nose as 
though to eradicate all pain, all thought.
“Please . . . my Father. You must allow me this!” Her wooden voice 
rose in volume and strength as she made the visible effort to inhale air 
deeper into her lungs. “If you will deny me this, I will walk out of this 
chamber and this Palace and make my way on foot. . . .”
“But oh, not Fiomarre! He is a traitor and the son of a . . . traitor—”
The Infanta was watching him sharply. “Tell me more of him, 
Father,” she suddenly said. “This betrayal, all of it. What have the 
Fiomarre done that you hound and persecute their family thus? For I have 
heard a tale of impossible, unspeakable woe from his lips. And his tale 
explains to me what motives led him to hurt me so—what horrible, mad 
hatred in response to an equally horrible, mad tragedy. For, this Fiomarre 
is a madman and yet, I believe he was driven to it. He has . . . just cause to 
be.”
“How can you say this, child, now after what he’s done to you?” the 
Emperor said, so as not to answer her question directly. To admit to the 
whole Fiomarre situation—even now, after all that had happened—was 
unthinkable. No, he could not divulge any of it, could not compromise the 
precarious advantage he had with his planted spies in the Sapphire Court. 
Not even to give a certain peace of mind to his poor daughter. . . .
And so instead he said in his most casual statesman-diplomat tone, 
with only a slight pause in a certain place: “The Fiomarre, Claere, are a 
despicable lot. As . . . was the father, so are his two sons—three I should 
say. Though the youngest is still a boy, I hear, these days. . . . In any case, 
do not concern yourself with the details of their betrayal—they are ugly 
and not for your sweet, innocent ears, my dear girl. Certain matters of the 
world are not fit for young ladies of Royalty who will one day rule—”
“I am dead, father!” she interrupted, her voice also rising but in a 
manner of labored breathing, barely creating a semblance of living 
emotion. “For Heaven’s sake, ‘sweet and innocent’ is never again to be 
said of me! Once, maybe—I was innocent, yes . . . frail and sickly in life, 
withdrawn and repressed, each living breath taken as though such an act 
required permission, and all the while waiting for the moment of my death 
without even knowing it. . . . And now I am strong! Dead and strong and 
unreal—an impossibility! And do you honestly think I will, one day, rule 
anything? Unless—maybe I will rule at Death’s side as his Cobweb 
Bride.”
The Emperor exhaled loudly, a sigh of resignation and despair. 
Looking up into her terrible pale face, the things he saw reflected there 
made him unable to dissemble any further, merely deny.
“I will not speak of Fiomarre any longer, Claere. Enough, do not ask 
me things I cannot answer. And—do not ask me why. Simply take my 
word as your Father and your Emperor.”
“In that case, my Father and my Emperor, I must beg leave to depart 
the Silver Court. And if there is no blessing, I will proceed without it.”
Josephuste Liguon II had no heart to deny her, especially not now. 
After a long pause, “Very well . . .” he said. “A carriage will be made 
ready for you, and you can leave on the morrow—”
“No! I must leave now, Father. There is no time, no time to waste, not 
a moment. . . .”
He nodded again. And then in a dead voice called the servants to 
arrange his daughter’s final departure.
As he did this deed of love for her, the Infanta raised her hands 
slowly and touched the platinum and diamond Crown that she wore.
She paused briefly, as though considering her next movement, or 
memorizing the moment. And then her cold, numb fingers gripped the 
precious metal. She removed the glittering Crown and placed it carefully 
on the nearest pillow. And then she removed her wig, pulling at it without 
mercy and knowing no pain, until a cascade of pins that held it in place 
scattered on the floor. Underneath, her thin pale hair, ashes-and-wheat, 
was revealed, gathered into a small twist in the back and pulled so tightly 
that it was flattened against her scalp. Traces of white powder remained, 
dusting the rim of her hairline.
The elaborate, coiffed wig fell to the floor, ignored.
The Crown sat twinkling with lights on the pillow, and she paused 
another instant to observe it.
Then, she turned her back on it in silence.
Tussecan was not all that different from Oarclaven, maybe just a tad 
larger and more crowded, Percy thought, as their cart clattered into town 
along the wide, cobblestone-paved and treacherously icy thoroughfare 
which the road had become. The blanket of show had melted into brown 
sludge on the edges near the storefront walks alongside the buildings that 
lined main street. And the sludge got iced over into two deep perpetual 
ruts on both sides of the street from all the traffic of carts and carriages 
and sleds that wore it down into slippery smoothness.
It was late afternoon and urchins bundled in woolens took running 
leaps and then slid on their feet along the icy grooves, flailing with their 
arms to maintain balance and then barely getting out of the way of 
oncoming equipage traffic. There were cries and hoots and laughter in the 
air together with the pungent scent of wood-smoke from the many piping 
chimneys. Percy took it all in as she sat hunched over in the cart, her 
thickly bundled feet dangling next to Jenna’s.
“Goodness, what a messy little town,” said Lizabette from the back, 
rubbing the side of her sharp, cold-reddened nose with her mittens. 
Lizabette, who it turned out was the daughter of a school headmaster in 
another town just south of Letheburg, was a fount of running commentary 
on everything from the density of snow at this time of the season, to the 
correct pronunciation of words, to the so-called gauche tactics of the 
mercantile class—as she referred to the street vendors who plied their 
trade in small carts and earned her annoyance. The more Lizabette shared 
her knowledge and lofty opinions, the more Emilie rolled her eyes behind 
Lizabette’s back and then made nose-thumbing gestures.
Gloria, the Oarclaven blacksmith’s shy daughter, remained perfectly 
quiet and distracted for the entirety of the journey as she sat next to Percy. 
Then, at one point during their “rotation” switch, she got out of the cart to 
walk, still without speaking a word.
The other young women—Flor, the sisters Catrine and Niosta, and 
the Letheburg girls, Regata and Sibyl—giggled and talked on and off 
among themselves, occasionally including Percy in their conversation. 
Jenna just sat humming loudly, and at one point broke out into a flat 
rendition of “Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride, come and lie by my side,” 
until Emilie reached over and pulled her kerchief around her face and 
shoved it into her mouth—at which point Jenna sputtered with indignation 
while Percy hid a smile.
“And what exactly makes you call this town messy, Lizabette?” Grial 
said, as she skillfully maneuvered Betsy’s reins while the stately mare 
plodded along, pulling them with no visible effort. “Looks to be rather a 
neat and orderly place to me—pretty buildings with new roofs, and those 
newfangled glass windows everywhere, freshly painted red panes, doors 
with shiny brass handles—why, I’d say it’s a very presentable place, this 
Tussecan! Even the smell is right—right about now, smells like hot 
cinnamon buns and pumpkin soup!”
“No offense, Grial,” said Lizabette, and everyone stared at her, 
waiting for the proverbial offense to drop, “but compared to Letheburg or 
even my own distinguished home town, Duarden, this is a provincial 
outpost. I mean, just look at those shabby carriages, not one sporting a 
noble crest, and the jostling crowds of townsfolk all dressed in Lord 
knows what. . . .”
And then Lizabette went silent, since pretty much everyone else in 
the cart surrounding her was dressed in Lord knows what. Percy and Jenna 
wore poor woolen hand-me-downs (even if one accounted for Percy’s 
mother’s so-called “heirloom” shawl), Emilie bundled in a greasy old 
quilted coat, while the two sisters from farthest down south wore near-
beggar clothing. The two well-dressed girls, Sybil and Regata, chose 
wisely to keep quiet. And so Lizabette pulled her own stylish coat with 
shiny brass buttons closer together and decided for once to keep her 
opinions to herself.
“Aha!” Grial exclaimed suddenly, “I smell it! Yes, on the wind, 
there’s warm stew in somebody’s pot! Or, at least a fine leather shoe, eh? 
Or is it hickory? Or just freshly baked bread? In any case, who’s hungry?”
“Who’s not?” Regata said with a groan, while all around came the 
chorus of “Me, me!”
“What should we do, ladies?” Grial continued. “We have a long road 
ahead of us, no doubt, once we pass the town, since it’s the last outpost 
between here and the Northern Forest. But it is getting late in the day, and 
the cold’s going to bite our noses off and leave us with little red stumps, 
unless we warm up. We’ll rest up tonight in Tussecan, I say. Who’s with 
me?”
“Me! Me!”
“Ma’am . . . Grial,” said Niosta who had just climbed into the back of 
the cart, trading places with Emilie. “What are we gonna do for money? 
We don’t ’ave nuthin’ to pay for any lodging or food. Really, we weren’t 
plannin’ on it. Just find a spot in somebody’s barn’s all we need.”
“Aha!” Grial said again. “But ‘nuthin’ is what’s indeed required for 
us to get food and lodging here in Tussecan. In fact, not only nothing, but 
probably less than that. About half of nothing will do. And certainly, since 
we’re talking about nothing, not even money is required, if you get my 
drift.”
“Not really,” Emilie said from the side of the cart where she now 
walked.
“Huh? I’m confused! That is, Ma’am, I’m confused—sorry,” Jenna 
said.
Grial gave a sudden bark of laughter. As always, it sounded a bit 
crazy, but also harmless.
“Here’s the deal, my pretties. It may be our impossible Cobweb 
Bridal luck, or just—well, who knows what really, probably nothing—but 
I have a cousin here in Tussecan, and her name’s Ronna Liet. And 
Ronna’s an excellent woman for oh-so-many reasons, the most important, 
as far as we’re concerned, being that she owns and runs an inn. Not just an 
inn, but a fine and generous inn with two stories and at least a dozen grand 
and yet delightfully cozy rooms, if I remember correctly—it’s been ages, I 
say, since I’ve been here last—and it’s called Ronna’s Imperial Crown and 
Dream. Or, maybe Ronna’s Regal Lethe Palatial Arms? In any case, here 
it is, ladies, right there, see this house coming up ahead? That’s it! There’s 
our free food and lodging!”
And with another bark, Grial pulled up Betsy’s reins while the cart 
rambled to a slow stop in front of a pleasant looking storefront with a 
brass-decorated shingle hanging on clean new chains and fresh red and 
green lettering that said “Ronna’s Inn.” Just below, in smaller white letters 
it said “Welcome, Dear Travelers!”
Sibyl, whose father was a Letheburg tailor, attempted to read the 
lettering on the sign and moved her lips silently, while Lizabette proudly 
read the sign out-loud in a school-marmish tone of voice.
Percy, who could read because her mother had made sure of it, said 
nothing. She and her sisters had been fortunate to have been taught letters 
by Niobea with her “city learning,” and spent many winter nights before a 
flickering candle, turning precious parchment pages—one of the three 
books that were in their house, each one treasured and re-read a hundred 
times, and stored in her mother’s ancient dowry trunk. But just because 
she could read did not mean she wanted others to know about it, especially 
now, as they were deciphering the lettering on the sign above the inn, and 
Lizabette was showing off.
“Yes, yes, well,” Grial said, as she started to maneuver the cart into 
the inn’s small alley on the side of the building. “And so it is, as you can 
see, exactly as I described.”
Just as they almost had Betsy turned around and into the alley, a very 
fast-moving vehicle driven by four very fine horses—followed by a groom 
and four spares, and flanked by an escort of another four riders—sped by 
the street, sending up icy sludge in every direction and scattering urchins.
The girls walking next to the cart jumped back to get out of the way 
while those in the cart had their necks craned to look. And then Lizabette 
gasped and her mouth fell open. “Did you see that carriage?” she cried, 
raising mittens to her cheeks. “It bore the Imperial Crest! And those 
horses? All purebred Arabians, no less, with braided tails and curled 
manes! And those Imperial uniformed knights! Good heavens, who could 
that be, here in this provincial outpost of a town?”
“And you said Tussecan has no crests,” muttered Regata.
In moments they were in the back of the inn, and everyone got off the 
cart, grabbed their belongings, and helped Grial unhitch Betsy. At the 
same time a matronly woman dressed in warm red woolens with an apron 
came out from the back door and, seeing Grial, beckoned with a smile and 
a nod.
“Hello there, Mrs. Beck!” Grial cried in her loud sonorous voice, 
turning to wave, and finishing up with the cart. “I’ve brought visitors for 
you and the Mistress—all Cobweb Brides, to boot! Have you got room in 
the barn for my Betsy here? Oh, and a room or two for the girls and me 
would be nice too!” And then she added, “Now, go on in, ladies, don’t just 
stand here in the cold! We’ve got plenty of work to do tonight!”
Everyone hastened inside. Percy was one of the last ones, because she 
and Jenna helped Grial take Betsy into the barn and got her settled in a 
clean and warm stall between two other horses. Then Percy pushed Jenna 
forward and into the back entry of Ronna’s Inn.
What Grial said about work was not a joke. They ended up waiting tables, 
scrubbing dishes, and helping Mrs. Beck and her women with the meal to 
pay for their supper and beds, which was more than fine with Ronna Liet, 
the innkeeper and Grial’s relation, a slightly plump and short woman in a 
full brown skirt topped by a starched white apron, a clean cotton blouse, 
and an easy smile on her face. Her expression was lively, with more than a 
bit of an attitude, and she had greying hair sticking in messy frizzy tendrils 
from underneath her bonnet.
That frizzy hair was obviously a family trait. When they unbundled 
inside, Grial turned out to have an unruly mop of witchy-wild hair with 
enough kink in it to make you dizzy if you stared at her head too long. But 
she was also revealed to be a younger woman then Percy had expected, 
middle-aged to be precise, and with a rather shapely figure that was not 
done justice by her messy multi-colored dress.
“Cobweb Brides, you say?” Ronna began, following Grial around, as 
soon as the girls were shown to their various tasks. “Well, indeed. They’re 
all over town, like vermin. First, a day ago when the Decree was read, 
there were mass hysterics and families weeping, as you can imagine. Then 
the town practically emptied. Our own girls have all gone on ahead—
including half of my serving staff, which is why we’re so shorthanded 
now—while these newcomers from all parts are passing through. What a 
mess!
“We have at least three of them staying in the inn tonight, and I think 
two more came in just earlier and are eating right now. Very subdued and 
haggard-looking, the poor things—quite unlike your own lively lot in that 
sense. But as long as they don’t bother the other guests and do their part in 
paying, I don’t mind, I suppose. Though, if you ask me, this whole thing is 
crazy and sad.” And Ronna shook her head, then rested hands on her 
ample hips.
“Tragic it is, but what can we do? Death’s demand it is, and we 
mortal fools must comply if we want to go on with the mortal part.” Grial 
spoke this while putting on a rather sooty and grease-stained apron that 
she removed from her own bag of belongings; she was getting ready to 
help in the kitchen. And then she added, “So, dumpling, tell me how 
you’ve been. What’s the talk these days? Any juicy gossip for me? 
Letheburg’s all gone dry, what with the Cobweb Bride business. They’ve 
even forgotten the Ducal warring in these here parts.”
“Over there, child.” Ronna pointed to a place on the hallway table for 
Jenna who’d just come in from the kitchen, to deposit a laden tray of 
freshly baked dinner rolls. And then she replied, “Yes, the Red and Blue 
Duke’s armies had a meet over Lake Merlait—the same night that Death 
stopped, they say. Horrific stuff happened, and apparently they carried 
half the men home in pieces—living pieces!” Ronna shuddered.
“You don’t say!” Grial rubbed her nose with the back of her hand and 
smeared a spot of greasy soot into a large streak. Percy, who stood nearby 
arranging clean dishes on another hall side table, reached over and handed 
her a wet dishcloth.
“Thank you, pumpkin,” Grial said, cleaning her face.
“Oh, oh! And worst of all,” Ronna said, “Duke Hoarfrost himself is 
one of those . . . you know, undead. He’s been struck a mortal blow, fell 
through to the bottom of the lake and came right back out as you please, 
an iced-over madman—so aptly named, wouldn’t you say. Who knew that 
he’d become the very thing that he was named? So anyway, he and 
Goraque declared a truce and he just marched back home to his 
godforsaken Keep. And now Hoarfrost’s terrorizing the locals—not just 
on his side of the lake but here too, in Goraque territory!”
“How so?”
“Supposedly—” and Ronna leaned in closer to Grial as though not 
wanting any of the girls to hear—“he’s patrolling the land with his armies 
and hunting all of you Cobweb Brides. Rumor has it he wants to stay 
among the living forever and so, none can get through and into the 
Northern Forest, which is just rotten awful, if you ask me.”
Grial exhaled loudly. “Oh, my . . . yes.”
“And,” Ronna continued, “there’s supposedly this—this—well, a 
particularly terrifying knight. Some say it’s his own son—who’s dressed 
in midnight-black armor and slays anyone who tries to fight through! 
Ugh!” She shuddered again. “I certainly do not envy any of your pretties.”
“To be slain by a mysterious knight in black armor when one is on 
one’s way to meet Death—yes, that indeed is a hoary fate,” Grial said. 
“Though, sweetie, how does the slaying part work these days? I thought 
that was the whole point, no one can get slain?”
“Ah, Grial, you’re right! What am I blathering?” exclaimed Ronna, 
slapping herself on the hip. “My sources are daft to be spreading such tales 
at a time like this. There’s probably no black knight, and this is all a whole 
crock of—”
“Well now, I wouldn’t go so far as to say there’s no black knight. He 
may very well exist, and I thank you kindly for warning me and the girls 
ahead, as to his possibility, especially if he is liable to hack us to pieces. 
Now, if you’d have told me there were a dozen black knights, or a bushel 
and a peck, or a whole platoon of them, I would find that a bit hard to 
believe. But one frightening fellow? Certainly within the realm of the 
reasonable.”
Flor and Regata came into the hallway from the kitchen, carrying the 
supper main course in a large covered kettle destined for the dining guests 
of the inn. While Ronna pointed to the side table, they deposited the heavy 
kettle upon an iron pot rest. And at that point, Flor, who had the most 
experience in the kitchen, being a baker’s child, cleared her throat and said 
to Ronna: “Begging pardon, Ma’am, but Mrs. Beck sends the pot roast, 
and here it is. But—” And here Flor paused, with an almost fearful 
expression surfacing—“but I’m not sure the dish came out quite . . . right.”
Ronna frowned. “What do you mean? Mrs. Beck is the finest cook in 
town! What are you saying, girl?”
Flor turned extremely pale and then flushed pink and clutched her 
hands together until her knuckles turned white. “I—that is, Mrs. Beck is 
no doubt a wonder, and it’s not that the roast is burnt or anything, but—it 
has the wrong smell.”
“What?” Ronna exclaimed. “Does it smell bad?”
“Oh, no, no! That is,” Flor continued bravely, “what I’m trying to 
say, Ma’am, is that the nice cut of meat does not have any meaty smell at 
all—you know, the roasted sweet aroma that comes when it’s all done and 
cooked up juicy an’ ready to be served. Well, this piece—a very nice rump 
slice, to be sure—it just doesn’t smell  cooked, although I’ve been 
supervising it over the fire for the last hour at least, upon Mrs. Beck’s 
instruction, Neither does it smell wrong, it just, well, it looks a little odd, 
is all, and that there’s no smell at all—”
“Did you tell Mrs. Beck?”
Flor again paled. “Well . . . No, Ma’am. I know how much pride a 
fine cook such as Mrs. Beck takes in their work, so it’s not my place to 
criticize. When my Pa makes bread in our bakery he tells us never to say 
anything because it’s his job to know how to bake things just right and 
only the paying customers can tell him their opinion, while it’s our job to 
make sure we don’t make mistakes when we do the baking—”
“All right, let me see this thing,” Ronna muttered. She lifted the lid 
off the hot kettle and leaned forward to sniff the vapor that started to rise 
immediately.
She took several deep breaths while Grial and the others watched in 
silence. And then Ronna frowned deeply and put the lid back down.
“You’re right,” she said. “It smells like . . . nothing. In fact, less than 
nothing. Wood shavings would have more smell. Didn’t Mrs. Beck add 
several cloves of garlic in there? What in the world?”
“She did, in fact, and I helped her. We also put in dill and potatoes 
and carrots and two large onions finely cut up. It’s all in there, if you look. 
But none of it smells like food.”
 “Funny you bring this up now,” Grial said. “But over the last day or 
so I’ve noticed that most food has been a little odd, to say the least. Even 
back in Letheburg. Tastes like hay or sawdust, and feels like lumps of clay 
going down.”
“Hmm. . . .” Ronna’s fluid eyebrows moved in and out of a frown, 
and she appeared to be deep in thought. While the girls stared at her, she 
approached the tray of baked rolls and stared critically at then.
And then she leaned forward and sniffed.
“Hah!” said Ronna in triumph. “Now these smell perfectly fine! 
Come, all of you, tell me I am not soft in the head, take a whiff.”
One by one, Grial, Jenna, Flor, Regata, and even Percy came to smell 
the rolls.
When her turn came, Percy inhaled a sweet floury smell of freshly 
baked breadstuff that made her mouth water, and there was an almost 
painful rumble in her stomach. None of them had eaten yet, what with 
getting the supper ready for the guests. . . .
“The rolls smell scrumptious, baked to perfection,” Grial said. “My 
compliments to Mrs. Beck and all of you lades who helped. Now, the 
mystery of the pot roast remains, however.”
Ronna went back to the kettle and lifted up the lid. Everyone gathered 
around it, staring at the dish inside, the chunk of meat surrounded by diced 
vegetables and steaming sauce broth. In fact, everything looked very much 
uncooked. As though the items were just placed into the pot over a minute 
ago.
Percy saw the meat and for a moment—maybe it was a trick of the 
eye, but it looked pink and raw and absolutely uncooked to her. In fact, if 
she hadn’t been sure she was looking at a separated chunk of some poor 
animal, she could almost say the flesh was moving, quivering, was 
somehow alive.
Percy stepped back, because all of a sudden everything flooded her, 
the awareness, all of it, and she started to gag.
And she was not the only one. Regata, already on the pale side, went 
livid and swallowed, then staggered back and rested against the hallway 
wall.
And then Jenna began to scream. “Oh God! Oh dear God, it’s just 
like the one my Pa couldn’t kill! Oh, dear God!”
“Hush, child, hush. . . . Oh, you poor dear, what is it?” Grial said, and 
took Jenna in a hug.
“Her Pa butchers livestock,” Percy said quietly. “The other day, there 
was . . . a problem. There was a pig in their shed and. . . .”
“No!” Jenna shrieked and struggled to escape Grial’s hold, and put 
hands over her ears while squeezing her eyes shut.
“Oh, goodness!” Ronna said, “Hush, girl, what will the guests think?”
“I’d better not speak any more, Ma’am,” Percy said. “It was rather 
horrible, and Jenna was the one assisting her Pa that night, so—”
“All right, that’s enough then,” Grial said, stroking the wheat-colored 
top of Jenna’s tightly braided head in soothing motions. It seemed to work 
immediately, as though Jenna was a puppy and Grial had a magic touch.
In that moment a side-door opened and Lizabette, wearing a starched 
apron, peeked in from the large dining room where she had been setting 
out the flatware and dishes, and asked: “Pardon, Ma’am, but your guests 
are waiting for the meal. When are we serving?”
And then Lizabette noticed everyone’s long faces, not to mention 
Jenna, barely composed and huddling against Grial.
“Oh . . . my,” Ronna said, paying no attention to the new arrival and 
staring off into space. “Something just occurred to me. This cut of meat is 
fresh. It has just come in from the butcher’s earlier this morning. All the 
meat we’ve been using to make meals before that has been frozen and 
sitting in the inn’s pantry in the cellar. And—”
“And it has all been butchered either last week or at some point 
before Death stopped,” Grial finished for her.
“Yes!”
“Oh, my.”
So what does that mean, exactly?” Flor said. “What’s wrong with it?”
“It means, girlie,” Grial said, running her tongue against her mouth 
then pursing her lips, “that all the meat and other foodstuff that’s been 
killed or plucked or fished or harvested, or otherwise had its life or 
existence cut short after Death’s stopping, is in the same suspended state
—let’s call it undeath, shall we—and cannot be used.”
“What? But we’ll starve!” Regata exclaimed. “That is, pardon me, 
Ma’am and you Grial, Ma’am. And also, that doesn’t explain the rolls! 
They seem to be fine! Why aren’t they also undead?”
“Undead   rolls?   Goodness,   how   gruesome.   But—aha!”   Grial 
exclaimed in turn, and quickly leaned forward and grabbed a puffy still-
warm roll off the tray, then bit into it. “Mmm, delicious indeed. So then, 
who thinks they can explain this miracle?”
“Bread flour comes from grain that was harvested months ago in the 
fall,” mumbled Percy softly, not looking at anyone and sort of examining 
the dishtowel in her hands.
Grial whirled around with excited wide eyes and a sudden crazed 
look on her face and pulled Jenna by the shoulder turning her along with 
herself with one hand, then pointed with her other hand at Percy.
“That’s exactly right, duck! You have it!”
Percy stared at Grial’s extended finger, while everyone else stared 
back at her.
Then Lizabette spoke again, addressing Ronna. “Ma’am? So then, 
what should we do about the hungry guests?”
Ronna put hands on her hips, took in a deep breath, and turning to 
Flor, said: “So, you’re a baker’s daughter, is that right?”
Flor nodded.
“Excellent! I think for starters you’re going to march right back into 
the kitchen and tell Mrs. Beck to fire up that oven. . . . A couple of the rest 
of you will come along with me and we’ll take a look in the pantry to see 
what other grains and dry goods we have. I’ll pay all of you girls extra, on 
top of your free night’s lodging of course, but since we are short-staffed
—”
Everyone groaned. It was turning into a horribly long evening and an 
even longer night.
Chapter 8
Claere Liguon, the Infanta and Grand Princess of the Realm, was 
impervious to the rolling movement of the splendid Imperial carriage. 
Despite its handsome padding and brocade pillows and other interior 
comforts, the carriage had been jostling along the icy roads for over two 
hours, moving at a speed entirely too wild for two of the other three 
passengers occupying the seats.
The first was a man seated directly across from her. Vlau Fiomarre 
had stilled in a state of apathy, his once-handsome bruised face turned to 
stare impassively through the slit in the window curtains at the rushing 
whiteness of the winter countryside. He wore a plain borrowed jacket and 
winter coat that had been given to him in the Palace guest quarters—not 
shabby but obviously the hand-me-downs of a ranking servant. As such, it 
was still a resounding insult.
The other two passengers of the carriage were a different matter. In 
the seat of rather dubious honor next to the Infanta sat Lady Milagra 
Rinon, First Lady-in-Attendance, clutching a handkerchief to her lips, 
bundled in an ermine cape-coat with a voluminous hood, both the coat and 
its wearer as pale as the snowscape outside. And across from her, next to 
the motionless Fiomarre, was Lady Selene Jenevais, also in Attendance 
upon Her Imperial Highness, equally pale and shaky from the road 
sickness, wearing a fox-fur coat.
Or maybe it was not merely the road sickness. The two Ladies had to 
attend an Imperial animated corpse and spend several hours confined in 
her presence and that of her murderer; queasiness and terror came with 
their duty.
The Emperor had insisted upon this escort. The Infanta wanted 
nothing and no one to slow down her journey, but in this the Emperor 
would not budge. In addition to the two Ladies of her Court, and a spare 
team of four horses that was driven by a second groom following 
immediately behind, there were four distinguished and valiant knights 
assigned to guard the carriage. Initially the Emperor had wanted to send 
along a whole cadre of soldiers, but relented, and the four knights were a 
compromise.
The Infanta herself wore unusually plain travel clothes for someone 
of her rank—a basic coat of deep sienna red wool, untrimmed, and hooded
—and underneath she had changed out of her bloodied court dress into a 
plain grey gown which resembled a convent habit in severity and probably 
belonged to a maid. She looked nothing more than a mousy servant 
herself, and her Ladies-in-Attendance would have thrown shocked looks at 
her attire had they not studiously avoided looking at all in her direction, if 
possible.
On the third hour of such breakneck speed, just past noon, they had 
arrived in Letheburg. The Infanta herself required no stop, but the driver 
had paused in order to exchange the teams of horses and give the rest of 
the passengers a brief respite. While the horses were tended to, the two 
Ladies-in-Attendance stretched their stiff limbs outside and used the 
facilities of the best inn, all the while being watched carefully by the four 
knights who also availed themselves of the break, one at a time.
Fiomarre was escorted under guard by two of the knights to relieve 
himself if necessary, and then he was back, silent and unprotesting, in the 
seat across from the Infanta.
For a few minutes they were alone in the carriage, just the two of 
them. Claere did not blink, looking at the now familiar man before her 
who had struck her a mortal blow only two days earlier. He in turn 
avoided her infernally unfaltering gaze—the gaze of a dead wild creature, 
a bird with glass eyes—and observed his hands, at present free of 
shackles. He had spent the night before in a guest apartment in the Palace, 
and had kept his word to remain and attend her.
And now, here he was, and here she was, and it seemed at rather odd 
moments that the carriage was closing in on him, on her, and they were 
sharply aware of one another again, reliving that moment of greatest 
closeness and intensity, the stroke of death, the drawing of life that bound 
them together.
“What do you think about?” Claere said, breaking the stifling silence. 
Her breath came laboring to form the words, precise like the strokes of a 
clock.
He looked up with a barely contained jerk, and for the first time in 
hours his eyes focused on her face.
“I—” he said.
“What are your thoughts now, Fiomarre?” she repeated. “You must 
be in a very dark place. I am . . . sorry. For everything that happened to 
you—including myself.”
His brows moved and he exhaled loudly then looked away, down, to 
the side—anywhere away from her. And then he barely spoke, in a faint 
whisper: “It is too late . . . for sorrow.”
“No,” she said, in a strong voice, unlike his own. “It is never too late. 
I should know. I am on borrowed time. While you have all the time in the 
world. Or—well, maybe not all, maybe not quite. . . .”
“What do you want of me, Liguon?” he exclaimed suddenly. He was 
looking directly at her, and his face had turned several shades deeper red 
with emotion. “You want me to beg your forgiveness for cutting your life 
short? Well, is that what this is about, this mockery of a pleasure trip in 
the country? Why am I here, with you, and not chained in the dungeon of 
your accursed father—where I, a damned man, properly belong? Why? 
Can you tell me that much, or are your plans for my torment so subtle that 
I cannot even begin to guess—”
“It is not my intention to torment or punish you. I already told you 
this much when I said you were a free man. Free to go or stay. You can 
rise and leave, right now, if it is your choice. No one will stop you, if I 
order it—and I will. My only stipulation was for you to honor my 
investigation of your family’s fate. For, I must understand what has come 
to pass, the full course of events that have resulted in this misfortune for 
you and me, for so many. . . .”
“There is nothing to understand . . .” he said. “I see now that you may 
very well be a fool innocent among vipers, that you were indeed unaware 
of your Imperial Family’s underhanded cruelty—but it will not diminish 
my hatred for you and yours. No matter how prettily you speak or how 
honorably you appear to act.”
“I do not appear. I am exactly as you see.”
“Very well! Then why do you take me with you on this one-way trip? 
What kind of investigating of my so-called fate can you accomplish in the 
forests, in the middle of nowhere, while headed to meet Death in order to 
present yourself as his Bride?”
And he glared at her with a triumphant smile, as though having 
caught her red-handed in an act of dissembling—tangible proof of Liguon 
dishonor.
But the Infanta returned his look with her own birdlike stare, and she 
said,   “My   understanding   of   your   family   will   be   based   on   my 
understanding of you. You are one and the same.”
“What?” he said.
In that moment the carriage door opened and Lady Milagra, followed 
by Lady Selene, were helped to ascend the stair and then they seated 
themselves, and the door was closed by a bowing footman.
Fiomarre went silent and dead, turning away once more. The 
newcomers gave him frightened brief looks.
“Begging Your Pardon for the delay, Your Imperial Highness,” began 
Milagra, sitting as far away on the bench seat as possible from the Infanta.
“Driver, proceed!” the Infanta said loudly on a harsh breath, ignoring 
the Lady. And then she stopped breathing again, and stared out the 
window as the carriage commenced moving.
“If it’s permitted to speak—I believe, Your Imperial Highness,” Lady 
Selene said in a soft careful voice, “the driver tells us we will be at the last 
town bordering the Northern Forest before nightfall. It’s a tiny fringe town 
at the very edge of the Dukedom of Goraque, called Tussecan, I think. 
Right after it, begins the wilderness.”
The Silver Court was in turmoil after the assassination of the Infanta. But 
because of the odd coupling of this event with Death’s stopping and 
everything that it entailed, the turmoil was low-key and subdued. 
Everyone spoke in whispers, courtiers of all ranks hurried in the halls, not 
stopping for longer than a moment to exchange information, and a lull of 
winter silence seemed to have descended upon the Palace.
On the second day after the Event—a word with capital letter 
emphasis, as everyone in the upper crust was beginning to refer to it, 
echoed readily by the upper servants—the food they were eating stopped 
being suitable for consumption.
They hardly noticed it at first, thinking the fault to lie with 
themselves, a lack of appetite, a malady that temporarily blocked the 
senses of taste and smell.
But toward suppertime on the end of the second day, it could not be 
denied—possibly it was at about this time that they had run out of older 
foodstuffs  harvested  before the Event, depleting supplies of freshly 
consumed edibles. The most grisly discovery was that newly butchered 
meat was  alive—if butchering was the right word to refer to the 
unspeakable atrocity. The produce too, anything that was freshly cut from 
the hothouses, was suspended in that same undead state. Cooking things 
did not seem to have any effect. Fire did not consume them, hot water did 
not scald or in any way tenderize.
Priests were brought in, and Masses went on, full-time now, in 
various chambers of the Palace and its surrounding lands. In other, more 
clandestine chambers, other more occult rituals took place, such that went 
without a blessing from the church.
The sudden urgency to meet Death’s demand for his Cobweb Bride 
finally became more than clear to everyone—either the world complied, or 
they would all painfully starve . . . unto eternity. For not even death would 
come as a blessed relief.
And seeing how dire things had become—beyond obeying an 
Imperial Decree, beyond familial honor—this was now a common struggle 
for all to exist without pain.
Merely living was no longer an issue.
It was at that critical point that all women—from the highest-ranking 
noble to the nameless low-born—suddenly found themselves to be 
prospective Cobweb Brides.
The Duke Claude Rovait stood in the partial shadow of a long sparsely-
used Imperial Palace hallway, staring through the window outside at the 
convoluted walls and the balcony overhang of another Palace structure, 
directly opposite, and no more than fifty feet away. Here the walls of the 
Palace angled and curved onto themselves, so that standing at the window 
and looking out one could observe the rest of the hallway beyond the 
bend, but from the outside looking in, as seen by looking into the opposite 
window near the balcony.
It was a very useful vantage point, unknown to many, but used 
regularly by the Imperial spy network of those who worked on behalf of 
the Realm under the leadership of the Duke of Rovait and the Duke of 
Plaimes. Here they could discreetly observe the Court in a far busier 
portion of the corridor that was centrally located. And here, to this locus of 
movement, it seemed, they’ve finally pinpointed a pattern of unusual 
activity.
Activity that could be pinned down upon enemy agents working on 
behalf of the Sapphire Court of the distant southern Domain.
Claude Rovait had his strong suspicions for many months that they 
had been infiltrated, but had come upon the pattern only a month ago—
very subtle initially—and his other observers were positioned here and at 
other vantage points around the clock, until they could be sure.
Soon, they were. They observed questionable contacts between 
unlikely individuals, overly casual and quick exchanges, and most of all, 
they observed messenger birds being received and dispatched from this 
exact balcony near the window, around the bend of the hall.
And now, Rovait patiently watched a small dark speck of a pigeon 
hopping along the railing of the balcony, waiting. The pigeon was here 
earlier that morning, and possibly as a precaution on their part no one 
came for it. But this time, it was back, and he knew he was about to see 
positive results.
In about fifteen minutes, his wait was justified. The window near the 
balcony opened slightly, and what looked to be a woman’s hand—he 
could tell astutely from the delicate shape and the sleeve—reached out, 
and the bird immediately alighted. The hand withdrew together with the 
bird. Then moments later, the bird, with obvious remnants of dry feed 
scattering from its beak, and surely a concealed message somewhere 
around its feathered torso and feet, took off again, rising up, soaring in a 
black speck against the white winter sky.
The balcony window shut once more. All that remained was for the 
Duke to see who would come walking around the corner, either in his 
direction, or the opposite—where another one of his men stood ready to 
take note—and he will have his hostile operative in the bag, so to speak.
In his mind he counted, and just before he reached twelve, a laughing 
threesome strode boisterously toward him in the hallway. He knew them 
immediately. The Duke proceeded to lean down to adjust the buckle of his 
shoe, fumbling and making noises of frustration, then rising just in time to 
see Lady Amaryllis Roulle, Lady Ignacia Chitain, and Lord Nathan Woult, 
the three charming and trend-setting troublemakers known in Court as the 
League   of   Folly,   saunter   by,   making   their   typical   flighty   and 
condescending commentary—at the same high volume level as though the 
disturbing current events of the last few days did not concern them.
Without bestowing any overt attention upon them he observed the 
women’s sleeves and recognized the fabric on one of them.
As he looked, he also noted the raven-haired beauty Lady Amaryllis 
throwing him a darting glance.
“So my dears, when will you be off to play Cobweb Brides?” said Lord 
Nathan Woult mockingly as soon as they were past the stretch of hallway 
where the unfashionably-dressed Duke of Rovait busied himself with his 
footwear.
“Why, as soon as possible—anything to accommodate your desire for 
that fresh rare steak. Isn’t that so, my dear Nathan?” Lady Amaryllis 
retorted.
Lady Ignacia made a sound halfway between a snort and a giggle, 
tossing her bright auburn hair. “Honestly, now, I wouldn’t mind a bit of 
steak myself,” she added. “Only, this is all very dire and misfortunate, and 
I am not sure I am up to such an . . . uhm . . . adventure.”
“None of us are, sweet,” Lady Amaryllis replied sharply. “And yet, 
we must. There is not a moment to waste, for oh-so many reasons, the 
least of which is steak. So off we go, right now.”
“What? Now?” Lady Ignacia’s pretty rosebud mouth fell open.
“But—aren’t you forgetting something, sweetlings?” said Woult. 
“Such as—the plumbing of your wardrobes for suitable attire would take 
at least all the rest of the afternoon and most of this evening? Anything 
less would be an outrage to fashion.”
“I say, indeed, Amaryllis, how will we manage to get ready to leave 
today? This is a bit overly hasty, isn’t it? Sort of daft, really.”
The Lady thus addressed whirled around and stopped in the hallway, 
overtly pouting, looking from one of her friends to the other.
“If you are not up to it,” she said, “then I am off on my own. My 
sweet Papa’s not going to miss me or the Curricle of Doom.”
“Oh heavens, not the Curricle of Doom!” Ignacia gave a small 
scream. “You cannot think to drive that thing in such weather?”
“What weather?” Lady Amaryllis snorted. “Look outside, my dear, it 
is still and dead, a Winter calm. The snowflakes are hardly coming down, 
and the Curricle has taken me on far rougher trips than this. The one 
immense advantage is that it will be the fastest thing on the road, and we 
can run over a whole battalion’s worth of other Cobweb Brides on their 
way to the same place we’ll be heading. Less competition, you know.”
“Hah! Now you’re jesting completely,” Nathan exclaimed. “You 
can’t mean to say you actually want less competition in this endeavor? 
Would you really have Death pick you as his very own, one and only? I 
thought the point was just to have a thimble of fun, and to let the other 
damsels and ladies stampede the Grim Fellow?”
“Nathan, I hate to say this,” Ignacia mumbled. “But I do believe this 
has all crossed the line beyond fun and into duty a long time ago. And you 
know what happens to Amaryllis when she perceives a challenge. We are 
in for it now. Adventure is unavoidable.”
In the deepening evening twilight the forest was a crystalline thing of blue 
pallor and barren black tree branches. It had began to snow again, softly, 
and the snow dusted the world, deepening all layers and filling the still air 
with sparkle in the light of the rising moon.
Beltain stood shifting in place, feeling his body freeze slowly, and 
moved his fingers and toes in reflex, bundled as they were in layers of 
wool inside the boots and gloves and underneath the deadly cold of the 
metal mail. Only motion could keep one from freezing now, during night 
patrol. His warhorse stood nearby and he would periodically pull its lead 
to make it take a step or two to stay alert.
As near as a few feet away, and ranging onwards, scattered about the 
forest were his men. A small discreet fire burned on the ground in a very 
deep, semi-concealed pit that had been dug out with great difficulty with 
ice picks, and they took turns warming their fingers over the embers. 
Occasionally a black form would move past, to report to his ranking 
officer who would in turn report directly to Beltain.
Somewhere deeper in the forest, at least three miles away, was his 
father. Duke Hoarfrost was patrolling a stretch of icy wilderness where a 
living man would have greater difficulty, but a dead man might as well 
make himself useful. Several other undead Chidair soldiers were with 
Hoarfrost, and the living men who reported back and forth between them, 
were suitably wary of the task.
Over the course of the afternoon and evening they had intercepted at 
least several dozen potential Cobweb Brides. The women had been found 
making their way through the forest and along paths, and many had come 
along the major road leading north-west from Tussecan. They were young 
and not-so-young, most sorry and haggard, walking alone and in groups of 
two or three, some carrying bundles, others empty-handed and resigned to 
not having to come back. There had been at least ten noblewomen 
complete with servants and carriages to accompany them. The carriages 
had been stopped easily, any guards surrendered or beaten off, and the 
women were all herded together and then taken in small groups back to 
the ducal Keep and settlement that was situated deeper in Chidair lands, to 
be placed in custody and held indefinitely.
Several times the women themselves or their guards resisted, or 
fought back, or ran. The Chidair patrols had to give chase, and at times 
there had been brief skirmishes. Beltain had given his men a direct order 
to avoid bloodshed as much as possible, and if a fight was inevitable, to 
seek to overpower instead of strike killing blows.
“No maiming,” he had also told them. “Do not take limbs.” Doing so 
was the cruelest thing possible under the circumstances, since death could 
not relieve anyone, but limbs lost were gone forever and mortal pain had 
no relief.
Beltain thought of pain, the dull ache in his own battle-weary body, 
the bruises slowly healing underneath the wool and mail and the 
everpresent cold. He thought of what it all meant, what they were doing, 
what he was doing. And yet he did not allow himself to think too far, for 
that would invoke questions, and he could not bear to question things, not 
now. . . .
“My Lord,” said one of his men, Riquar, bearded and bearish, 
emerging from the shadows up ahead in the direction where the road lay, 
and beyond it, Lake Merlait. “There is a quickly moving carriage of sorts, 
coming this way. Looks to be well-guarded too, and extra horses. How 
should we proceed?”
Beltain exhaled deeply, watching his breath curl in pale vapor. He 
then moved toward his horse. “Proceed as before,” he replied, gripping the 
saddle, mounting with some difficulty, but unassisted by a squire—a 
testament to his determination and sheer strength. “Set up the ambush 
teams on both sides of the road, then bring out the roadblock. But make 
sure the cut tree is visible from a distance, giving them advance notice. I 
want   no   overturned   carriages   and   unnecessary   damage,   nor   hurt 
innocents.”
“Yes, sir.”
The man disappeared ahead, and Beltain whistled, giving the signal 
for patrol on alert. He leaned forward in the saddle and urged his horse 
forward, while all around the forest came alive with dark moving figures 
of his men, converging rapidly upon the road south of their location.
Beltain rode carefully, avoiding clumps of unpassable brush and 
snow, while branches struck him occasionally on the helmet and shoulders 
and chest plate, sending blasts of icy fresh powder over the minimal 
exposed area of his already numb face. His powerful horse knew the forest 
well, and he relied upon the beast’s ability to avoid pratfalls and find its 
own way.
Soon, he and his men were at the edge of a clearing. The roadway 
spread on both sides of them, one end leading southeast to Tussecan, the 
other disappearing further north until the road itself became a forest path, 
then dissolved into hoary impassable woodland in Chidair territory and 
beyond. Here was no-man’s land, the boundary between Chidair and 
Goraque, spanning all of the thoroughfare and the northern lakeshore, 
technically lands belonging only to the King of Lethe and ultimately to the 
Emperor of the Realm.
Which meant that he and his Chidair soldiers had as much right to be 
here as that carriage.
The clamor of its approach and the galloping horses announced its 
coming half a mile ahead, as might the best of court chamberlains. Beltain 
wondered who would have such urgent business at this hour, and here, on 
the outskirts of civilized territories. He had little doubt this was all 
somehow related to the Cobweb Bride situation.
Three Chidair soldiers plunged forward and down the snowy 
embankment dragging a felled pine tree, cumbersome with evergreen 
branches, many of which were still loaded with packed snow. They 
arranged it across the roadway, then retreated to both sides and hid along 
the snowdrifts and shrubbery flanking the road.
Everyone waited for Beltain’s signal in silence.
One more bend of the road, and the galloping carriage came into 
view, a dark expensive thing carried by fine horses, with two wrought-iron 
lanterns hung in the front to illuminate their way with a golden radiance 
against the blue night. Their illumination extended just far enough to 
reveal the sudden obstacle lying before them.
The driver reacted swiftly and pulled up the team just short of the 
fallen trunk and branches, with a yell and clatter and angry protesting 
neighing of the horses. Coming immediately after, a groom barely reined 
in the four spare horses, and four mail-clad knights burst forward, passing 
the carriage and flanking it on all sides, their mounts pulled up and rearing 
in frustration. The knights were armed—for Beltain could see the sudden 
glint of bared steel in the moonlight—and they sat atop great horses, true 
pedigree beasts bred for heavy combat.
The same moonlight also revealed Imperial insignias and coat-of-
arms on the clothing of the knights and decorating the sides of the 
carriage.
Very interesting. . . . But damn, thought Beltain, this was not going to 
be easy. And unfortunately this exchange was very likely going to be 
deadly.
He gritted his teeth. His right hand encased in the gauntlet went for 
the great sword at his side. And his mind filled with steel and winter.
Raising his left hand in a sharp motion Beltain gave the command to 
attack. At the same time he drove his warhorse forward and emerged 
crashing through the shrubbery of the raised embankment and down onto 
the road, readying his sword-hand for a deadly blow.
His men burst forward with cries but he paid them no more heed, for 
he had entered the battle mindset and was oblivious to everything but the 
enemy.
The closest of the knights came at him with a yell, but Beltain 
advanced like a battering ram and his blow brought the man down from 
his horse so that he was dragged several feet in the saddle. Beltain had 
already turned away and was engaging the second knight while his men 
swarmed the fallen knight and immobilized him with nets and ropes.
“If you can help it, do not strike to kill!” Beltain exclaimed, and then 
regretfully had to act against his own orders and hacked the knight’s right 
arm off after plunging the sword deep into his chest in a purely defensive 
strike. The mortally hurt man screamed and continued screaming while 
blood poured out of him, black in the moonlight, and sluggishly froze in 
the snow. “Forgive me . . .” Beltain whispered as he severed another limb 
so that the knight could not resume his attack as an undead, and instead 
slumped forward then fell from his horse.
“Surrender!” Beltain yelled hoarsely to the third knight who was 
approaching from the other side of the carriage. “Surrender now and state 
your business and I swear upon the name of Chidair you will not be 
harmed!”
“No, it is you who will surrender, villain! You will lay down your 
arms before your betters. We are Peers of the Realm, on Imperial 
business,” replied the third knight, keeping a shrewd distance, having seen 
how two of his comrades have fared against this one knight. His face was 
uncovered halfway and his helm’s partial visor remained up so that 
Beltain could see two dark intense eyes underneath heavy brows. At his 
side, the fourth knight approached and the two of them maneuvered their 
horses so that they had their backs turned to the carriage protectively and 
their swords drawn.
“Will you attack both of us at once, Sir Knight—if that is what you 
truly are? Or will you send your rabble to take us on?” spoke the fourth 
knight, his low belly-rumble voice echoing through the forest. He cut a 
great figure, a huge hulking shape, helm covering his face—truly, a giant 
not unlike Beltain’s own father, the Duke Hoarfrost. Indeed, he seemed 
familiar and Beltain thought he might have seen this one in the ranks 
before, might have even fought him in courtly competition, but could 
recall no name to match the figure.
“I and my men have no wish to attack either of you,” replied Beltain 
in a cool steady voice. “But if it comes to a fight, I promise your honor 
will not be besmirched. I am Lord Beltain Chidair, son of the Duke Ian 
Chidair, Lord of the lands which you are about to enter. Who are you? 
What is your business here? Who sits inside the carriage that you guard?”
“Since when has it become necessary to explain one’s presence on a 
public road?” said the smaller knight with the heavy brows. “I am Baron 
Carlo Irnolas, Peer of the Imperial Silver Court, at my side is Lord Givard 
Mariseli, and we are on the business of the Emperor.”
“What of the carriage?” said Beltain, motioning with his blood-
stained swordblade. “Who is inside?”
The two knights glanced from one to the other. Finally the baron 
spoke, after a pause just significant enough that Beltain suspected he was 
not about to impart the whole truth: “Within are . . . two noble ladies of 
the Silver Court. You must swear not to harm them. You must let us be on 
our way!”
Beltain sighed. This was truly not to his liking but he had to proceed. 
“These two noble ladies—are they by any chance on their way to present 
themselves to Death as Cobweb Brides?”
Another long pause. Then Lord Mariseli, the larger of the two men, 
exhaled loudly, and said, before the baron could interject, “Why, yes, they 
are.”
“In that case,” Beltain said, “I may not allow you to proceed. I am 
under orders not to allow any potential Cobweb Brides to pass through this 
forest and the lands, by order of the Duke Hoarfrost, my father. Set down 
your weapons and surrender and I swear neither the ladies nor yourselves 
will be in any danger. I must simply take you to the Chidair Keep where 
you will be accommodated according to your noble rank. If you resist, I 
will be forced to injure you with mortal wounds. And yes, I will remove 
your limbs so that although at present you cannot die, you will be crippled
—just as your unfortunate comrade-at-arms over there.” And he pointed to 
the fallen undead knight who sprawled in a barely moving mess with only 
one leg and one arm still attached to his torso, his body twitching and 
emptying of the last of his blood. . . .
“This is an outrage!” Baron Irnolas exclaimed. “We are knights under 
Imperial Orders, and we are sworn to lay down our lives for—” And then 
he grew silent. Instead, with a quick desperate movement his sword arm 
lashed out and he struck Beltain on the left side, blade slamming against 
his shoulder.
Beltain reacted swiftly, turning his torso to lessen the impact of the 
blow, yet could not avoid the strike completely. The blade did not pass the 
chainmail or the plate, and yet the impact of it was powerful enough that 
his left arm went numb momentarily and he knew that serious damage was 
done. But he ignored both the pain and the numbness and instead struck 
out with the blunt flat side of his own blade and delivered a resounding 
slam-blow against the top of the baron’s head near the ear. The blow was 
designed to disorient or even knock him out, and apparently it succeeded. 
Dazed, the baron teetered in his saddle. Beltain used that instant to push 
the knight backward, so that he toppled over. Beltain cried out to his men, 
“Net him! Quick!”
Meanwhile Lord Mariseli roared his anger and attacked Beltain who 
somehow parried him with his sword. Beltain’s powerful right arm 
received the bone-jarring impact and held—just barely. And the next 
instant they grappled, still in their saddles.
Fighting Mariseli was like being mauled by a bear, and it did not help 
his concentration at all that in that instant Beltain heard one of his men 
shout, “Hey, you, stop! My Lord, there are women escaping from the 
carriage!”
With a desperate gasp for air—for his chest was being squeezed by 
the giant knight—Beltain used a single burst of violent strength to free 
himself. He then twisted sharply, ignoring the agony in his wounded 
shoulder, and slammed his other shoulder and elbow like a battering ram 
into his opponent, shoving him backward and out of his saddle before this 
bear of a man could resume the grapple-attack. It was one of his trademark 
unbeatable moves. And this time again his men were there, with nets, and 
they confined the raging knight, so that he flopped like a bound whale on 
the snow and roared his fury on top of his voice.
Panting loudly, Beltain did not waste a moment, and rode around the 
carriage in pursuit of what looked like two desperate female figures 
bundled in expensive winter fur capes, running back along the road the 
way they originally came from. Several of his men had a head-start and 
were rapidly gaining on the escapees.
One of the ladies screamed, a shrill terrified voice, and then began to 
thrash in the arms of one of his men who was the first to catch up with her. 
In an instant she was joined by her companion, and the two screamed, so 
piercingly and incessantly, it seemed, that some of the men who had 
surrounded them held their ears while others cursed and spat in the snow.
Beltain’s mount carried him up to the group and he commanded in a 
tired and angry voice, for silence.
The ladies must have sensed his authority immediately, because they 
complied. Beltain squinted, seeing in the moonlight two pretty faces, 
frightened and yet proud in that indelible manner of the noble aristocracy. 
They were both shaking and breathless from all the screaming, but their 
expressions were unusually resolute, so that once again Beltain felt a 
twinge of regret at what he had to do, how he had to act.
“I am Lord Beltain Chidair,” he said. “You will not be harmed.” 
Unfortunately, his stern irritated voice did not soften the meaning of his 
words.
“Then have your men unhand me this instant!” exclaimed one of the 
women, dark-haired and more classically beautiful of the two. “I am Lady 
Milagra Rinon and my companion is the Lady Selene Jenevais, under the 
protection of the Emperor. You have neither the right nor the authority to 
prevent our free movement in these lands.”
Beltain watched the lovely shape of her face, the dark full lips, the 
moonlight-glittering eyes widened with outrage, and he thought, In the 
name of God, please do not cry, oh do not start to cry. . . .
But this one was a hard beauty, and there were to be no tears. Her 
steady gaze upon him did not falter. And her companion was apparently 
following her lead in all things, for she too held steady and her rounded 
childish face remained remarkably brave.
“Ah, Madam, my pardon,” he replied, his tone softening with 
weariness. “However, I regret that in this forest it is my authority and that 
of the Duke my father that stands. So, without much more unpleasantry 
and distress, for your sake I insist you comply. It’s getting late and rather 
cold. I ask you to come with me, and you will be treated respectfully, upon 
my word as a Knight of the Realm.”
“Hah!” the lady replied. “You, a Knight? That status will not be for 
long. Wait ’til the Emperor hears of this—this—”
But he ignored her sputtering and turned to his men.
“Check the carriage to see if anyone else is within. Then, assist these 
two Ladies of the Court back inside. The knights are to be kept bound 
upon their horses. We head back to the Keep.”
He turned his horse around and followed two of his men to the 
carriage, without looking back to see if his command was being carried 
out. He heard only small initial exclamations of protest this time, then 
silence. Indeed, thank God for small blessings—such as no female 
shrieking.
The carriage, a fine regal vehicle indeed, stood gaping open, and no 
one else was within. Satisfied with the cursory examination of its interior, 
Beltain turned away, intent on the moonlight and snow and allowed his 
men to handle the rest. The horses were rounded up, the now-perfectly-
docile ladies escorted back inside as politely as possible.
Remarkable, really, it occurred to him suddenly, how docile indeed, 
how quiet they had become.
As though they had achieved their end.
When the carriage rolled away surrounded by the escort of Chidair 
soldiers and their knight, when there was nothing else but snowfall and 
crackling of branches on both sides of the road, Vlau Fiomarre dared raise 
his head from the snowdrift in which he hid.
Next to him was she, the one he’d made into an animated corpse. She 
lay flat against the ground, just as he had thrown her, and he had piled 
fresh handfuls of snow upon her, burying her in the whiteness. Next, he 
had hidden himself practically on top, also digging into the snowdrift next 
to the roadside shrubbery, having covered their tracks the best he could 
while the commotion took place. While the two Ladies-in-Attendance had 
run, as instructed, in the opposite direction, screaming on top of their 
lungs to create the necessary distraction, he’d helped the Infanta from the 
carriage, then half-carried her stiff cold body up the small slope, praying 
in his mind they not be seen—while another detached part of his mind 
seemed to be looking down at himself with astonishment at the madness of 
such actions.
“They are gone . . .” he whispered eventually.
No response. Underneath the snow, she did not stir.
He rose and stood up, brushing the snow from himself, watching the 
spot where she was concealed.
It occurred to him that maybe, just maybe, he really buried her this 
time, and maybe she will now rest in true eternal peace, silent at last. . . .
At this thought something in his chest painfully twisted, a spasm of 
pain, followed by a corresponding tug at the back of his throat, forming 
immediately into a lump.
No, he thought, swallowing the lump, the pain, no, I will not sense, 
will not feel—
In that instant the snow shifted and slowly she sat up, moving with 
peculiar effort and stiffness, then took in a deep shuddering breath which 
she used to speak. “My flesh . . . seems to resist movement. . . . It is the 
cold. . . . I . . . require . . . a moment.”
And he gave her the moment, watching her in cold horrible silence, 
as she sat, moving her hands and elbows stiffly. He did not offer 
assistance and she did not ask, as she then raised herself from the ground 
with supreme effort, then shook the snow from inside the folds of her 
simple coat. She adjusted it and her head covering, finally raising up the 
hood—not because she needed it, but to keep up appearances of someone 
living. Her hands moved oddly, like angular limbs of a doll.
“Thank you for your help,” she said unexpectedly. “You—you are—
free to go now. I can no longer insist on keeping you at my side, because 
now everything has changed. Go!”
He stood for a moment speechless. In the moonlight he could see her 
pale skin and the great stilled eyes, unmoving, glittering with ice, for they 
had frozen in their sockets.
A terrible chill crept up his spine, separate from the chill of winter, 
for he realized that he was living the ultimate nightmare—he was alone in 
the moonlit night in the wilderness, with the shade of the one he’d killed, 
standing directly across from him. But for some reason all he could think 
of was the pitiful pallor of her skin and sunken cheeks, her small upright 
figure, and those great peculiar unblinking eyes, dark and fathomless and 
tragic in the glamour of the night.
“I will go with you,” he said. “You—will need protection in these 
parts, apparently. You will need someone to help you reach Death’s 
Keep.”
“No. I cannot have this,” she replied. “You and I are reconciled in my 
mind. It is over, truly. From now on you are to be free of any regret or 
guilt for your actions toward me. I have no control over your hatred of my 
family, but at least you will have no guilt on my behalf. And I bear you no 
ill will any longer, not even curiosity as to your motives. So, please . . . 
go.”
But he said, “No! I may be a dead man in the law, a dead man, but I 
am a man of my word. I’ve given you my promise not to escape.”
“This is not an escape. This is but the end of our reckoning.”
“Oh, but it is not!” he exclaimed then, taking a step closer toward her, 
staring directly into her eyes, so that if she had not been dead and stiff 
with cold she might have taken a step back. His dark eyes were fierce with 
intensity. “You have no control over hate, my hate, indeed,” he said, “and 
thus you have no control over me. I choose to stay. With you. Do you 
understand, daughter of Liguon?”
“No guilt . . .” she said. “I want no guilt.”
“No guilt!” he exclaimed. “No guilt, no guilt, no guilt! Only fury and 
hatred and retribution! You cannot get rid of me so easily as all that, not 
unto death even, for you are not the one to forgive me—only the Almighty 
can do that, and such a thing is not to be. Thus, a damned man, I follow 
you.”
This time she said nothing in reply. She merely turned away from 
him, and began walking slowly, her feet sinking in the snow, moving 
away from the road and deeper into the forest.
Panting hard with emotion, the vapor of his breath swirling white 
against the ice air, he followed her.
Chapter 9
“Percy! Percy! Peeeer-cy! Wake up!”
Jenna was shaking Percy who surfaced out of a dreamless deep sleep 
to a groggy state of confusion.
“Huh? What?” For a moment Percy did not know where she was, and 
thought she was in her own bed and it was her younger sister Patty calling 
her. “Go away, Pat . . .” she muttered, starting to turn over onto her other 
side, only to bump into a lump that was another warm body. . . .
Everything rushed back, and Percy came awake with a sickening 
sense of immediate reality, and lifted her head, squinting. They had been 
lying four to a bed in a small room in Ronna’s Inn, and the warm lump 
was none other than Emilie, still asleep and snoring softly into the pillow. 
On the other side of Emilie was another one of the girls, but Percy 
couldn’t tell who it was, since she was covered completely with the 
blanket.
Jenna had slept on Percy’s other side at the edge of the bed, but now 
she had crept out of bed and was whispering loudly, “It’s not Pat, it’s me, 
Jenna! You know, Jenna Doneil! Time to get up, an’ we oughta get 
going!”
“Oh, Lord . . .” Percy muttered, sitting up with a groan and rubbing 
her face. “It is even dawn yet?”
The shutters on the one small window of the room had been drawn 
and it was impossible to tell whether there was any light outside.
“Dunno,” said Jenna, “but we oughta get going! I just feel it, we need 
to hurry, hurry!”
“And that would be why?” said Percy in sleep-deprived irritation. She 
sat up completely and lowered her bare feet to the wooden floorboards. 
Ouch, the floor was freezing cold.
The night before had been an insane flurry of rushing about back and 
forth from the pantry to the kitchen and trying to cook breads and 
porridges for an inn full of hungry guests. They were all of them bone-
weary when they finally managed to eat their own share, clean up the 
kitchen and drag themselves to beds.
While Percy and Jenna set about using the chamberpot, washing up, 
then putting on their clothes, layers upon layers, the other girls were 
stirring too. Emilie got up with a huge yawn, clutching her old tattered 
nightshirt tighter about her against the chill air of the room. The 
unidentified person on the farthest edge of the bed hidden underneath the 
blanket turned out to be Gloria Libbin, the Oarclaven blacksmith’s 
daughter, and she nearly fell out of bed, also seeming to forget where she 
was, initially.
Out in the hall, the inn was coming awake, and they could hear 
footsteps and voices. They came downstairs one by one and Percy and 
Jenna were the first of their group.
Ronna the innkeeper was already out of bed and Mrs. Beck got the 
lounge fireplace going and retreated into the kitchen to begin the day. 
“Morning, girls. Be sure to have a bite to eat before you head out,” said 
Ronna kindly, glancing at the two. “That goes for all of you.”
Jenna tugged Percy’s sleeve. “Are we going to be ridin’ in Grial’s 
cart again?” she whispered loudly.
“I don’t know, that would be up to Grial,” Percy replied. “She may 
not be going on past Tussecan. Remember, she only did us a kindness 
yesterday. It’s not like it’s our cart to do with as we please.”
“Well, child, it certainly could be your cart, if you ask me nicely.” 
The overly bright voice belonged to the familiar frizzy-haired woman, and 
Percy nearly jumped, turning around at the ringing sound of it.
“Good morning, pretties!” Grial said, pushing her way past them into 
the doorway of the kitchen, then dragging them by the hands inside. “First, 
a bite to eat, as Ronna says, or two bites. Maybe even three . . . or 
four. . . .” And then she broke into a cheerful cackle.
“Grial, what do you mean?” said Percy, taking a roll from a huge tray 
left over from last night, and sat down on the end of a bench at the cook’s 
table.
“Well, here is the deal, duckie. You go on and take my cart with the 
rest of the girls, while I stay here in town and visit a bit longer with 
Ronna, my blood relation. I entrust my darling Betsy and the cart to you, 
because I know you will take excellent care of her—the cart and Betsy, 
that is, both of them are a she, and both require excellent care. When you 
finish up that Cobweb Bride business, you come back here to Tussecan, to 
this inn, and just drop them off.”
Grial was smiling as she finished.
As she listened, Percy’s mouth slowly came open. “But—” she said 
eventually, “but I can’t do that! How can you say that, Ma’am? I mean, I 
am not sure I can . . . well, drive the cart into the forest, and what will we 
do when the road runs out and we have to go on by foot? And what do I do 
about Betsy’s feed? And what about rubbing her down in the cold and—
and—”
“Oh, phooey! You’ll do just fine!” Grial exclaimed, taking a large 
mug of hot tea that Mrs. Beck came to pour for her. She then drew closer 
to stare at Percy across the table while Jenna watched them with 
excitement.
“Thing is,” Grial said in a conspiratorial voice, “let me tell you a little 
secret, girlie. That road—those roads, all roads and paths in fact—they 
never end. You might think they do. You might think they just narrow and 
fade and disappear in the hoary depths of the forest? Not so, not at all! 
They merely go into hiding, and you just have to search a bit harder to see 
them. Now, Betsy can always see them. Why? Well because she has a 
knack for it, and because she’s Betsy. So, if you have Betsy along with 
you, there will always be a road, and where there’s a road, there’s a cart—
if you follow my drift. Just trust your instinct, and when you can no longer 
do so, allow Betsy to take the lead.”
Percy and Jenna were staring at Grial, mesmerized by her words. . . . 
Until Grial broke the spell by hitting the table surface with the palm of her 
other hand. She set down her mug, then got up to fetch some butter for the 
rolls from the pantry.
Percy opened then closed her mouth again, while a grin broke 
through. She glanced over at Jenna, saying, “Goodness, I guess then we 
have a cart!”
Jenna let out a happy squeal, followed by a series of squeaks.
“What’s all the shrieking?” Lizabette came into the kitchen, followed 
by Regata and the rest of the girls.
“We have a cart! We have a cart!” Jenna intoned with a huge grin.
“We do?” Catrine said. “Well, gracious us, that’s just grandiose, as 
me Ma would say—may the good Lord rest her! I never expected no cart 
for so long as we got it!”
“Me neither,” said her sister Niosta. “And the good eatin’ too.” And 
she grabbed two rolls from the tray.
“Grial’s just too kind, that she is coming along with us to the forest.” 
Lizabette took a hot mug of tea for herself and a plate of oatmeal and 
settled at the table.
Percy swallowed a chunk of her roll and looked up. “She’s not—not 
coming, that is. Grial said I can drive the cart and bring it back when 
we’re done with it.”
“You?” Lizabette set down her mug and stared at Percy over her 
sharp nose. “Why, that is just . . . odd.”
“Why?” said Percy. “I can handle the cart just fine. My Pa has one 
very similar, and a horse too.”
“But you’re—you’re—”
“I’m from a small village. A place where people drive carts. While 
someone like you is from a large town, and I’m sure you have better 
things to do with your hands than rub down a horse or pull the reins. Isn’t 
that right?”
Lizabette opened her mouth then thought better of it and went quiet. 
However she still had a displeased expression on her pinched face.
“Percy driving is fine with me,” Sybil said good-naturedly.
“Me too,” said Flor, who had just heard the news and came over to 
the table with her own bit of breakfast.
“Me three!” Emilie said, slurping her tea.
Gloria, coming to sit at the farthest edge of the table next to Emilie, 
just smiled.
They set out on the road in the bluish dawn. Grial and Ronna stood at the 
doors of the inn and waved them goodbye as Percy climbed up on the tall 
driver’s perch and took the reins while the rest of the girls settled in the 
cart with their things and this time three of them remained to walk 
alongside it.
“Get along now! Whoa, Betsy!” Grial cried, and hearing her 
mistress’s voice Betsy reacted by starting to walk in her sedate powerful 
manner before Percy had a chance to gently adjust the reins. Soon they 
were moving down the street along the same main thoroughfare in the 
direction that led out of town, northward.
The streets were mostly empty at this hour, though there were 
occasional pedestrians and carts, and yes, several young women walking, 
who looked suspiciously like they could have been Cobweb Brides.
“Isn’t it exciting?” said Jenna, as she skipped and hopped every other 
step. “We are all going to be Cobweb Brides!”
“We can’t all of us be Cobweb Brides, Jen,” said Flor in mild 
amusement, walking alongside her.
Lizabette, riding in the cart, gave a snort.
Within a half hour they were close to the northern outskirts of town, 
since Tussecan was not a large place, no matter how it might have seemed 
the night before when it was bustling with supper-hour traffic and 
townsfolk. This early in the morning the air seemed crisp and actually 
bluish with haze, if you squinted to look.
Can air be blue? Percy thought, as she watched the road and the 
surrounding red-shingled rooftops from her tall driver’s perch. It certainly 
seemed colored, or at least tangible somehow, as it swept the chimney 
smoke to rippling puffs, here and there, as she glanced around.
At   last   they   passed   the   farthest   outlying   buildings,   and   the 
thoroughfare continued onward past empty fields on both sides, and 
occasional shrubbery. The sun rose, pale and veiled against the winter 
white sky, and just ahead of them was the dark shape of the looming 
Northern Forest. From the distance it looked like a streak of unresolved 
shadow against the northern horizon, but soon enough, they knew, it 
would become great trees, predominantly evergreen pine and fir. And then 
it would surround them.
Occasional young women were seen walking along the road. Some 
passed them, others—after asking where the cart was headed—dropped to 
an even walk alongside it.
“It’s safer in a big crowd,” said Percy to one or two of the stranger 
girls. “If you’re all heading to be Cobweb Brides, you might consider 
walking with us.”
“Do you know where to go?” asked one young skinny girl-child with 
a heavy accent, who trudged along the side of the road and stuck to their 
group.
“Not really,” said Percy calmly. “But we all know it’s somewhere 
North, inside that forest, and for now there’s this big comfortable road. So, 
one step at a time.”
“Sounds good to me!” replied the girl, with an olive-dark face and 
very black doe-eyes, speaking somewhat awkwardly. “I’m Marie, and I’m 
a’gonna walk with you, if you don’t mind.”
“We don’t mind!” Jenna put in, clapping her mittens together 
cheerfully.
Marie started at the sound, and Percy immediately felt sympathy for 
her, frightened and tiny and mousy-dark, in her much-darned poor excuse 
of a coat.
“Where are you from, Marie?” she asked, to put her at ease.
But the girl seemed to become even more flustered at the question.
“Are you from Letheburg?” Regata asked kindly. “Because that’s 
where Sibyl and I are from.”
“No . . .” Marie replied after a pause, blinking her eyes nervously. 
“We—my family lives in Fioren now, but before that, we came from . . . 
far away.”
“Farther than Duarden? I am from Duarden.” Lizabette said smartly. 
“It is quite centrally located, you know, in a small but prime area. Because 
if you keep going you will hit the Silver Court directly, and I doubt, from 
the looks or sounds of you—no offense—that you are from the Imperial 
neighborhood.”
“I—I am not from your . . . Realm.”
Most everyone turned to stare at Marie at that point.
“Please . . .” she said, “I hope you don’t mind, I have been living here 
in Lethe almost two years now—”
“Good heavens!” Lizabette said. “Are you from Balmue? Because 
your speech, that accent, why—”
“I—we came by way of Balmue,” spoke Marie, her voice almost 
breaking into a whisper at that point, “but that was in the end. First, we 
came down a big river, I don’t know what you would call it, but we call it 
Eridanos—”
“Gracious, that is in the Kingdom of Serenoa, is it not? One of the 
four kingdoms of the Domain, the other being Balmue our southern 
neighbor, and then even more south, and to the east, the Kingdom of 
Tanathe, and finally on the other side, south-west, the Kingdom of 
Solemnis.”
“Yes, Serenoa,” said Marie, and she pronounced it differently, more 
liltingly, and again everyone stared.
“Is that where you’re from?” Jenna said in wonder. “What’s it like?”
Marie’s alarm lessened somewhat and a wistful expression replaced 
her fear. “Beautiful! Yes, Serenoa is beautiful and green, and a little cold 
on the top, like your Lethe here, but very warm down below. It is the most 
northern part of the Domain, and the two share a border across the 
mountains. On the west, Lethe, on the east, Serenoa. But we had to go 
around, because no one can go over the mountains, so we went down and 
sailed the river Eridanos, and then crossed into Balmue, then we came 
back up north.”
“But why?” blurted Jenna. “Why did you leave?”
Marie thought, and a worrisome expression returned. “I don’t know,” 
she said. “But I think my parents just wanted a new life.”
“Exactly,” said Percy. ‘Why else does anyone move from one place 
to another?”
But some of the girls continued to stare somewhat.
“You’re not spies, are you?” Lizabette said. “But then, if you were, 
you wouldn’t admit it, would you?”
Marie opened her mouth and looked like she wanted nothing more 
than to disappear on the spot. “Oh, no, no!” she hurried to say. “No, 
please, of course not spies! My father carves wood for furniture! We live 
in Fioren and my parents sell the chests and boxes! Oh, no, no!”
“I think we’ve scared Marie enough,” Sybil spoke up loudly. “The 
poor girl is in the Realm now, and she’s going to be walking with us, so 
enough nonsense!”
“Spy my arse!” Niosta added, and winked at Marie, then at her own 
sister Catrine. And they both stuck their tongues out at Lizabette when she 
was not looking.
Marie exhaled in relief, and mostly avoided eye contact with anyone, 
but she now resolutely trudged along with the cart.
They moved for a few minutes in blessed silence, with only the 
creaking cart and the crunching snow.
Jenna began to hum:
“Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride,
Come and lie by my side. . . .”
and again,
“Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride,
Come and lie by my side. . . .”
Lizabette wrinkled her forehead and said, “Will you not do that 
please, child? I have the beginnings of a headache and it’s hardly past 
dawn. Not good to be having one this early.”
“Oh, sorry!” said Jenna, and went marginally quiet. Her cheeks and 
nose were pink from the cold air, but you could tell she was just bursting 
with energy, as her steps came with a bounce. So, instead of humming she 
started running in zigzags in front of Betsy, with her arms stretched out to 
the sides like wings.
“Look at her, the big goose,” said Regata, walking next to Flor. But 
she was grinning as she said it.
The forest drew closer, and soon the first tall sparse trees began 
showing up on both sides of the road. All sound seemed to disappear, 
except for the occasional crunch of snow underfoot and the clumps falling 
from branches, and the fast sudden beating of bird’s wings.
The cart rolled slowly, and had to veer off to the side a bit several 
times in order to allow faster vehicles to pass. Because, there had been 
occasional carriages and curricles along this empty stretch, and you could 
hear them coming from miles away in the forest silence. There had been 
one in particular, a curricle traveling at breakneck speed, crammed with 
three passengers. In the blink of an eye that they could tell, they were two 
fine ladies and a lord, with one lady in the driver’s seat. They were all 
wearing fancy winter hats with plumes, and it was a wonder the hats did 
not come flying off.
“Did you see that? Fancy aristocrats!” Sybil said matter-of-factly—
her thick reddish brows rising in amusement—as she leaned to stare in 
their wake, from her seat in the cart next to Lizabette.
“Indeed, and those tri-color plumes are the height of fashion at the 
Silver Court this season!” replied Lizabette, patting her own somewhat 
stylish hat.
“Do noble aristos really go to be Cobweb Brides?” Emilie folded her 
shawl closer around her reddened snub nose.
“I think,” Percy said, “it doesn’t matter if you are noble or a nobody, 
when it comes to being a Cobweb Bride.”
Jenna immediately picked up the humming.
“Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride,
Come and lie by my side. . . .”
Suddenly, Gloria, the quietest person Percy knew, began to recite in a 
loud melodious voice:
“Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride,
Come and lie by my side.
Here, the cool touch of stone
And the feel of my throne
Will not make you recoil.
Here the worm-ridden soil
Covers ancient white bones.”
Everyone stared at her, including Marie, and even Jenna went 
absolutely quiet and nearly ran into Betsy, as they listened. Gloria 
continued to recite, as though she had memorized the words a long time 
ago and they were merely coming out now, like easy breaths:
“Time suppresses the groans
Of your own mortal kind;
Soothing dark fills the mind.
Here with me you will reign,
If true love you don’t feign
With a smile on your face.
Dressed in pale spider lace
You will come unto me,
Make your choice clear and free.
With the breath from my chest,
Lips of stone on your breast,
You will know Death’s cold kiss. . . .
Do not find me remiss.
First your heartbeat grows still;
Dissolution of will.
Then you sink with me, deep,
Into dark, final sleep.
No regrets must there be,
Promise me.”
The words ended. There was absolute silence, except for the creaking 
of the cart.
“Goodness!” said Lizabette. “What . . . was that?”
“Did you just make that up, just now?” Emilie said.
Gloria nodded.
“That was actually somewhat poetic . . .” Lizabette said. “I wasn’t 
even aware you could read, much less compose.”
“How did you do that?” Jenna exclaimed. “How, how? Gloria, how 
did you do that?”
Gloria shrugged, then said quietly, “I am not sure . . . I make up 
rhymes in my head. Sometimes.”
“Rhymes! Sometimes!” Jenna squealed in exuberance. “That rhymes! 
Just now, you did it again!”
“Headache?” Lizabette reminded, holding on to her forehead.
But Jenna was not to be denied this time. “How does it go, Gloria, the 
whole thing, please? ‘Cobweb Bride, Cobweb Bride . . .’” She began to 
sing in her ringing but somewhat flat tone, just slightly off key, just 
enough to be endearingly annoying.
Percy bit her lip in suppressed laughter.
Tired, cold, and in pain from his compounded injuries, Beltain stood at 
attention in the icy-cold chamber of his father, the room with the broken 
window and the snow drifts piled on the windowpane among the shards of 
broken glass. Together with the cold, milky dawn light seeped inside, 
illuminating the bulky shape of Hoarfrost.
The Duke sat in the chair with his back to his son, before a single 
flickering candle lowered inside a tall glass to keep it from being 
extinguished by the gusts of wind that freely travelled the room. He was 
reading something—a roll of parchment, thought Beltain—that looked as 
if it had been delivered by a messenger, for Beltain could see the red silk 
ties and the crumbling remnants of a broken seal littering the mahogany 
surface of the large table.
The seal seemed familiar, but he was not quite sure, not from the 
distance at which he stood. Besides, he was in that state of exhaustion 
where he almost ceased caring. His vision was swimming from lack of 
sleep, and his newly damaged shoulder was in agony. It seemed that all of 
his recent injuries were hardly healing, and now, this. Damn that knight 
who bear-wrestled him. . . .
“My Lord . . .” Beltain began. “Father, I’ve delivered another group 
of prisoners. Among them are Imperial knights and two ladies—”
“Quiet!” Hoarfrost’s bark-like exhalation of breath interrupted the 
younger man. He continued to pore over the writing, and Beltain was 
about to offer to read it for him when his father turned around, crumpling 
the sheet in his beefy hands and then held the parchment over the candle.
The thin material caught on fire soon enough and Hoarfrost tossed the 
flaming ball into the cold, unlit hearth of the fireplace nearby where it was 
consumed and fell apart in tiny reddish sparks. His fingers had seemed to 
hold the flames momentarily also, but the dead flesh could not have 
known it, the burning pain. . . . The dead man slowly and methodically 
extinguished his fingertips by rubbing them against the icy front of his 
surcoat tunic.
“Now then,” said Hoarfrost, turning to his son like a creaking tree-
trunk and actively shaping his mouth into a rictus that was intended as a 
smile. “How was your night of hunting, boy?”
“Well enough, father,” replied Beltain. “There were many women—
poor girls mostly, bedraggled creatures—that we’ve caught all over the 
forest and the vicinity. And, as I mentioned, I’ve detained an interesting 
group   of   noble   prisoners,   including   Imperial   knights   and   two 
gentlewomen.”
“Imperial knights, eh?” said Hoarfrost.
“Yes, sir . . .” Beltain found it uncanny to stare too long at the 
motionless eyeballs, frozen in their sockets.
“Where are they, these Imperial visitors?”
“Here, in the Keep, my Lord. They have been given food and a space 
to rest, some spare quarters—”
“You are far too charitable to your prisoners, boy!”
“I—was not sure what you intended to do with them.”
Hoarfrost sat back in the chair with a creak. “True enough, I have not 
decided yet. It might be easiest to kill them and have them join my ranks 
here in Chidair.”
Beltain felt cold rising inside him.
“Kill . . . the women?” he said softly. “How will that help you . . . or 
your ranks?”
“It will certainly get them out of the way and out of the Cobweb 
Bride running. Plus, with the dead, less mouths to feed in town. More 
resources for the Keep. Plenty of solid reasons I should have them killed. 
They can do the laundry and they wouldn’t even need to stop for sleep.”
And Duke Ian Chidair laughed with the rhythmic sound of bellows.
Beltain felt a sudden spasm of dizziness in his head, while the room 
seemed to shift momentarily. He grasped his hands before him until the 
fingers lost all feeling and took a staggering side-step in order to remain 
standing.
Hoarfrost noticed his condition. “What’s the matter with you?” he 
said. “Shaking, boy? You are almost as white as I am.”
“It’s been a long day and even longer night . . .” Beltain continued to 
grasp his hands before him. “And, I’ve not yet recovered from my 
previous wounds. . . . Earlier, one of the Imperial knights mauled me 
rather badly. I—would appreciate a bit of . . . sleep, my lord.”
“I see, whelp,” Hoarfrost said. “Maybe I should have you killed after 
all, so you won’t ever have to worry about these mortal concerns again, 
eh? I could grant you the deathly stroke myself, what do you say, boy? 
Clean and fast. No? Well then, take an hour and lie down for a nap, then a 
bite to eat. Then, back out you go, we have more Cobweb Brides to catch. 
And—you’ll see—things are just beginning to get exciting. . . .”
Speaking thus, Hoarfrost glanced behind him at the once-again cold 
hearth of the fireplace.
“May I . . . take my leave?” Beltain said softly, feeling the muscle 
strength in his legs dissolving. Another minute of this and he knew he 
would not be able to keep himself from collapsing.
“Yes, get your sorry carcass out of here, before I make you a carcass 
indeed,” Hoarfrost replied. “I’ll be taking my personal patrol out into the 
woods and expect to see you back out there shortly. Dismissed!”
Harsh wheezing barks of laughter followed Beltain as he headed out 
the door. And then, silence, and the whistle of the ice-wind through the 
broken window. The cold seemed to come with him as he walked to his 
own quarters in the Keep. Cold, permanently lodged in his mind.
The threesome that comprised the League of Folly had travelled all night. 
Though no one would admit such a frivolous sentiment, this was an 
improvement over having to attend another excruciating midnight ball and 
pretend to eat entirely raw  living  flesh at the buffet. Lady Amaryllis 
Roulle, wearing a smart burgundy-red riding habit—even though she was 
not going to be riding any beasts, merely controlling them via harness 
while perched on a high seat—drove the Curricle and the two fabulous 
black thoroughbreds like a madwoman, while Lord Nathan Woult and the 
Lady Ignacia Chitain held on to their seats for dear life.
They flew past towns and villages, took a brief stop to dine at 
Letheburg   around   midnight   (waking   up   an   understandably   crabby 
innkeeper and his staff to serve them something either raw or like tasteless 
sawdust, then pack a picnic basket of the same for a later “snack” on the 
go), then back on the road they went. It was crisp and clear indeed, 
without snowfall or the least bit of inclement winter weather. And except 
for the wind chill in their faces, luck was with them as far north as 
Tussecan, after which, smack dab in the middle of the road, it ran out.
The Curricle’s right wheel came off the axle. Goodness knows how 
or why it happened, in the faint bluish light of dawn, but, as a result, the 
Curricle teetered, and while Amaryllis hastily attempted to pull up the 
horses, stopping them sharply and pulling with all her strength, the 
thoroughbreds reared.
Next thing everyone knew, they were all on their sides, and the 
Curricle of Doom had capsized ignobly, sliding several feet with the 
momentum, the sole remaining wheel spinning in the air, then stopping to 
rest with the wheel lodged deep against a snowdrift-covered roadside 
hedge. One of the horses was pulled along, and tripped, then rose up 
again, miraculously unharmed but screaming in equine fury. The other 
remained upright, and pulled at the Curricle, dragging it even further along 
and lodging the solitary attached wheel deeper into the show.
To add insult to injury, the small travel lantern hanging from the front 
was snuffed out in a blink, and with it went all their light.
Lady Ignacia screamed and Lord Nathan screamed, then uttered 
curses that were beyond his vocabulary under normal circumstances. Lady 
Amaryllis, her hands entangled in the reins, was alarmingly silent, having 
ended up pulled halfway out of the curricle and onto the iced-over road 
and just barely away from underneath the feet of the thoroughbreds. She 
lay, panting, then moaned, while Lady Ignacia attempted to crawl out of 
her seat in the back next to Woult.
“Damnation and bloody hell!” cried the young man over and over, as 
he assisted Lady Ignacia from their sideways position. Finally they freed 
themselves from the overturned vehicle and were upright, standing on the 
road.
“Amaryllis, dear, are you alive?” Ignacia said in a horrible soft voice, 
picking up her capsized plumed hat, then straightening with gloved fingers 
her emerald-green cape over a sage travel dress—all without attempting to 
approach her fallen friend. And then she began to shriek again, and in-
between shrieks managed to say, “Woult, do go get her out, go see if she 
lives! Oh, God in Heaven!”
“Amaryllis?” Nathan tried, lowering himself in a crouch before the 
motionless female, while stretching out one splayed hand to keep the 
rearing horses away—as though a mere hand could.
“Yes . . . help me up,” said Amaryllis at last. She moved her head 
then slowly raised herself up on one elbow, then fell back again with a 
sharp exclamation of pain. “Hurts like something horrendous . . .” she 
managed to say.
“What hurts, my dear?” Lord Woult drew himself closer, knelt, 
avoiding the horses, then took a careful hold of her.
“Ah! It’s my side! Nothing broken, I venture, but I’m afraid a bruise 
is imminent. My wrists are all entangled and my knee is scraped, and oh, 
my ankle—damn it all! And look, the Curricle is a godless mess!”
Amaryllis bit her lip but did not cry as Woult managed to free her 
gloved hands and got her upright so she could stand, leaning on him 
heavily.
“What a filthy idiot mess, what indignity!” Amaryllis muttered.
“Be glad you’re safe, and Curricle be damned,” Nathan replied 
soothingly in her ear.
“Yes,” said Ignacia, “for it could have been infernally worse! We are 
all safe! But—What happened, exactly?”
“Here, you help her stand while I deal with recapturing the beasts,” 
said Nathan, handing Amaryllis over to lean on Ignacia’s shoulder.
“Recapturing? The beasts are hardly ‘loose’ that they need be 
recaptured, silly boy,” retorted Amaryllis smartly, proving that she was 
indeed sufficiently well. “Just grab the reins and tie them down for now, 
while we deal with the Curricle.”
“Whatever happened?” Ignacia repeated.
“I haven’t the faintest idea in all of the blessed Realm.” Amaryllis 
tried stomping her feet and found that one of her ankles was indeed in 
poor shape and practically burned with agony when she put her weight on 
it. “All I know is,” she continued, “we were flying along just fine, and 
suddenly the accursed wheel went—just like that, in the blink of an eye. I 
tried to slow us down but . . . well, as you see.”
“Did the grooms fail to have this vehicle checked properly?” Nathan 
said, panting with anger and exertion. He had captured the reins of one of 
the thoroughbreds and was now wrestling with the other as it reared and 
stomped around, jerking at the fallen Curricle with every move it made. 
“Whoa, whoa, down, girl—or boy—or whatever you are, you violent brute
—”
“Now   really,   Nathan,”   Amaryllis   protested.   “You   know   your 
horseflesh; these are fine boys, do not insult them. They are perfectly 
innocent and had nothing to do with any of this, the poor dears. Thank all 
the stars in Heaven they are not injured!”
Minutes later the horses were secured, and Amaryllis limping but 
able to stand on her own.
“So what are we to do now?” Ignacia said unhappily.
“Well, I suppose I could walk on back over to that town we passed 
just recently and see if we can get help.”
“No! You aren’t just going to leave us here unprotected, Nathan!” 
Ignacia’s blue eyes grew round with imagined terrors.
“She’s right.” Grimacing in severe discomfort, Amaryllis rubbed her 
side with one hand. “We’re in a nasty wilderness, and this is dangerous 
enough as it is, with highwaymen and cutpurses lurking lord knows where, 
and now, with all the Cobweb Bride stragglers that will be making their 
way here past us. None of them can help us properly, and I am sure more 
than one of them would be only too happy to rob us down to our 
petticoats.”
“Besides, there’s that black knight . . .” said Ignacia.
“What black knight?”
“Not sure, m’dear, but at the roadhouse, when we stopped for a 
breather in the last town, someone mentioned him—a terrifying merciless 
creature of a man. Supposedly, he is a mercenary, or maybe an 
executioner, possibly in the employ of the local Duke. Dressed in all black 
mail, astride a black beast, with horrid minions, he—they haunt these 
forests, hunting all who pass here, and Cobweb Brides in particular.”
“Who told you that? What poppycock!” Nathan said.
“Well, I wouldn’t call it poppycock.” Ignacia smoothed down her hat 
plumes and adjusted the contraption on her head. “Particularly when it 
could very well be true. These local nobles are as good as savages. You’ve 
heard of the interminable rivalry between Chidair and Goraque, the so-
called Red and Blue Dukes? They fight a war every season like 
clockwork, and it’s in their blood. So, why not black robber knights 
lurking in the woods?”
Amaryllis stood deep in thought, with hands on hips, and her 
normally perfectly coiffed black hair flowing in semi-disarray. She was 
looking at the fallen equipage. “We could try to lift this thing back 
upright.”
Ignacia turned to her with an angry bobbing of hat plumes. “What? 
Just the three of us, and you lame as a partridge? Amaryllis, my dear, I 
wouldn’t be surprised if you’ve struck your head when you fell. This is 
beyond impossible.”
“Well, it could be worth a try,” said Nathan. “Amaryllis, sweetling, 
do limp on over to my right and you’ll lift from that end. Ignacia, you and 
I, as the only two able-bodied creatures, will push with all our might from 
this angle. . . .”
With much grunting and long minutes of misplaced effort, they 
managed to shove and drag the Curricle out of its place in the snow 
bushes, then grunted and groaned twice as long to get it precariously 
upright.
The Curricle of Doom, aptly named, wobbled on its one remaining 
wheel and leaned heavily to the right against the axle pole, at an alarming 
angle. Nathan went down the road to look for the other wheel, the culprit 
that had caused all this mess. The thoroughbreds, now docile and tired 
after that long fast drive, obediently stood nearby.
Ignacia wiped her brow with the back of her glove and sat down on a 
fallen travel chest that had been in the small back seat with her and now 
reposed in the road. “Now what?” she said tiredly. “So he retrieves the 
jolly wheel. How will we re-attach it?” And then she wailed. “I am 
freezing, tired, hungry! I just want to be in bed with a hot cup of tea right 
now, Amaryllis! This is no longer fun! I demand a relief to this—this 
horror!”
“Oh come now, Ignacia, don’t blow this out of proportion, we’ve just 
capsized. It’s a minor thing, all things considered.” Amaryllis watched 
Nathan approach, rolling the large wheel before him.
“How in blazes do you plan to re-attach that thing?” said Ignacia with 
irritation. “Have you any blacksmithing skills? Proper tools? And where 
are the lugs that you need to fasten it? Probably rolled away halfway down 
the road, lord knows where. . . .”
“Lugs?” muttered Nathan. “And what do you know of curricle wheel 
lugs, m’dear?” And he threw Ignacia a very peculiar glance.
“Nothing! I know nothing of lugs except that at present we don’t 
have them. You might think otherwise, Lord Nathan Woult, but I am not 
the ninny you might think I am! Yes, I’ve heard the grooms talking, using 
that ‘lugs’ term when they were adjusting the wheels.”
While Ignacia chattered, Amaryllis glanced up and down the road. 
Surprisingly there had been no passerby in the long minutes that they’d 
been downed. The portion of the road behind them, winding south-east, 
had filled with pallor along the horizon over the treetops where the sun 
was due to rise shortly.
“Look, it’s dawn,” Amaryllis said. “How pretty and crisp it looks 
here on the outskirts of the Realm.”
“Well I think it’s perfectly horrid,” Ignatia said. “We ought to be 
moving forward or heading back, doing something or . . . or getting 
assistance from someone! In the very least, someone ought to be down this 
infernal road who can help us! Where is everyone? Not even one puny 
vagabond Cobweb Bride!”
Just as the last petulant word echoed into silence, from far behind 
them down the southeasterly road came the faint sound of voices, 
approaching.
Female voices. Girl voices.
And amazingly, in this dawn-lit no-man’s land, there was laughter 
and singing.
Chapter 10
From the driver’s seat, Percy could barely feel the cart swaying 
underneath her as it rolled along the northern road. She held on to the reins 
with stiff, mitten-covered fingers as Betsy plodded with confidence, 
hooves crunching on the fresh show that dusted the beaten-down 
thoroughfare. Occasional fat snowflakes came fluttering down like sudden 
bits of dislocated cloud in the blue dawn. They landed on tops of shawls 
and hats, sprinkled all the exposed surfaces like “heaven’s sugar and 
flour.”
God is cooking, Percy’s Gran used to say. When it’s winter and bitter 
cold, He sends down heaven’s sugar and flour, so that we can make sweet 
bread and stay warm.
Sugar and flour? Brr, it was cold!
The girls were singing all around her. Every one of them—except for 
Lizabette who protested that it was far too cold to speak, much less sing, 
and that they will all lose their voices and go hoarse permanently, and no 
one, much less Death, would want to marry them and become attached to 
a “husky virago.”
At which point Niosta and Catrine stopped singing and held their 
faces to suppress coarse laughter.
“A less than dulcet voice never stopped a man before from 
marrying,” Sybil remarked with a twinkle in her eyes. And then she picked 
up the song again in full voice.
Emilie started to cough.
“You see!” Lizabette exclaimed. “She is losing her voice already!”
But even Percy herself could not hold back, and hummed the chorus
—so quietly that probably only she alone could hear herself—while vapor 
curled from her lips.
For the last few miles they had all picked up and memorized Gloria’s 
far-too complicated grim verses of the Cobweb Bride “song,” and, led by 
Jenna’s earnest voice, had somehow put it all to music, to the tune of “My 
Shepherd’s Pot Is Boiling,” or maybe it was the “Little Red Apples” 
nursery song.
The cheerful discrepancy was obvious (while the air was still indeed 
frigid from the night). And yet it felt good somehow to belt out at the top 
of one’s lungs such happy tunes coupled with such gruesome lyrics as 
“worm-ridden   soil”   and   “Death’s   cold   kiss”   and   especially 
“diiiiissoluuuuuuuution of will”—“Whatever that means,” sang Emilie, as 
she added her own bit of harmony.
“‘Dissolution of will’ indeed! Where in the world did you come up 
with that one? What notions, what long words, Gloria!” Lizabette 
commented occasionally.
Gloria simply shrugged and continued walking with two other girls 
who were taking their turn not riding the cart.
In the distance, up ahead, there was something on the road.
Percy felt an instant pang of worry for their safety. She squinted into 
the bluish dusk, pulling on the reins to slow down their movement.
“Oh look, what’s that?” Sybil said in that same moment, seated on 
Percy’s right and sharing her vantage point. Her feet dangling from the 
cart stopped moving.
“Everybody, quiet!” Percy’s voice rang out, and all the girls went 
silent immediately. It suddenly got so very quiet they could almost hear 
the dawning forest breathing in blue and silver dusk.
“Oh no . . . looks like a carriage wreck,” Niosta said, from Percy’s 
other side.
Marie, the so-called “foreign girl” from Serenoa—their newest and 
very young looking straggler, who had joined them only a few miles 
earlier—shivered. Covering herself in her threadbare shawl, she inched 
nearer to the protection of the cart.
“Or, it could be, someone’s up to no good,” whispered Flor. “What if 
it’s an ambush of some kind? What if it’s the black knight?”
Percy felt a cold lump of fear forming in the depth of her belly. And 
by the looks of the others, she was not the only one. But she could not 
show it, could not let them know she was afraid, because Grial had given 
her this cart to drive.
“Be on your guard, and get ready to run, if needed,” she said firmly.
And so, they slowly and quietly advanced forward. Betsy the draft 
horse took soft, cautious steps in the crunching snow, and the cart wheels 
barely creaked.
But they had nothing to worry about.
“Oh, gracious, I recognize that tri-colored plume hat!” said Lizabette, 
as they approached.
And indeed, in a few more feet they could distinguish a familiar 
curricle standing semi-upright at an odd angle in the middle of the 
thoroughfare—the same one that had passed them a few hours ago—and 
its three aristocratic occupants. One lady was seated on top of a fallen 
travel trunk. The other stood nearby, awkwardly keeping one foot from 
resting flat on the ground, milling from one foot to the other, and holding 
on to two very handsome thoroughbred horses. Meanwhile, a gentleman 
was busy fiddling with a possibly broken wheel.
“Hello there!” exclaimed the seated lady, and quickly stood up, 
waving her arms, her hat with its plumes bobbing, her expensive emerald-
green cape catching underfoot, so that she nearly tripped in the snow.
The gentleman let go of the wheel and turned likewise, waving at the 
approaching cart.
“Greetings to you! We mean no harm and require assistance!” said 
the gentleman in a ringing baritone accustomed to haughty command. In 
the blue light of dawn, he was handsome and elegant in his winter 
greatcoat, with a fur hat rakishly slanted over his dark hair.
“Good morning to you,” Percy said, pulling up the cart, and stopping 
Betsy just far enough away so as not to spook the other horses, and also 
just to be cautious.
Meanwhile Lizabette responded at the same time, interrupting her. 
“M’Lord! M’Ladies!” exclaimed Lizabette ingratiatingly, “is anyone 
hurt?”
“No,” said the lady in deep burgundy red, holding the horses.
“Yes!” exclaimed the other two.
“The Lady Amaryllis here has a sprained ankle, and she does require 
assistance back to town,” said the lady in green.
“Yes,” echoed the gentleman, shaking snow off his gloves and dark 
coat. “As you can see we’ve run into trouble. Take us back along this 
same road, and you will be well compensated.”
The walking girls gathered closer around the cart, and everyone was 
staring at the aristocrats, and then back at Percy.
“Well,” said Percy thoughtfully. “I’m sorry, but I’m afraid we can’t 
go back. We are all Cobweb Brides on our way to find Death’s Keep.”
“You did not hear me, I presume?” said the gentleman, with a sharp 
edge entering in his voice. “I mentioned that you will be paid—very well, 
I add.”
“Yes, I heard, M’Lord,” Percy replied, “but it is not the point. We 
cannot turn back now. I am truly sorry, but I’ve been entrusted to take this 
cart and this horse and all these girls, as far as possible forward. I cannot 
make detours.”
“And why not? Why is that, exactly?” said the lady in green. Her 
previous nonchalant tone was now different.
“Because,” said Percy, feeling herself going numb and yet more 
resolved with every word, “going forward once is dangerous enough. I 
cannot risk extending this trip for any of us.”
“Will a few hours make any difference to any of you?” the lady 
continued, coldly and bluntly. “You are all going to your deaths, you do 
know that?”
“Yes,” said Percy. “But only one of us will find it—if I can help it.”
Everyone looked at her in silence. The girls had gone very still; the 
nobles likewise, taken aback at the audacity and force of her words.
And then she added, more mildly, “If you like, however, I will make 
room for you in our cart. We all take turns walking. If the lady who is hurt 
needs to sit down for the whole duration, it is understandable. But that’s 
the best I can offer.”
“Why, this is an outrage!” exclaimed the lady in green, stomping one 
fine booted foot against the packed snow. “Do you know who we are? We 
hail directly from the Silver Court! The Right Honorable Lord Nathan 
Woult is before you, and this here is the Lady Amaryllis Roulle, and I 
myself am the Lady Ignacia Chitain! Have you any notion of what and 
whom you refuse?”
Percy was sorely tempted to say something she would truly regret, 
but held herself back.
“We are so sorry, Your Ladyship, My Lord!” muttered Lizabette. 
“Perchance you can have my seat here, I would be happy to oblige, really, 
all of us would be!”
“What’s wrong with your cart?” said Gloria suddenly.
“This is not a cart,” said the lady in red, limping a few steps forward. 
‘It is a curricle, and it has lost a wheel. Have you any notion of how to fix 
something like this? Any of you?”
“Why, what an excellent idea, Amaryllis!” said Lord Woult. And to 
the girls he said, “If you can fix this wheel, you will be paid very, very 
well!”
Niosta and Catrine looked at each other, clever dark eyes glittering in 
the dawning light. “Well,” said Catrine, “I think me an’ sis here can take a 
look. My Pa and uncle taught us, they know all about carts and carriages.”
“Oh, good!” Lady Ignacia said. “So your father fixes carriages?”
“Well, not ’xactly, M’Lady,” said Niosta, with another glance at her 
sister. “He do know how to rob ’em however. But he sure know how to fix 
broken wheels on the robbed carriages!”
Lord Woult’s face was impossible to describe.
Percy said quickly, “There will be no robbing here, of anyone. Now, 
can the two of you girls please look at that wheel?”
With a few more exchanged glances and fleeting wicked smiles 
turning into disguised hard giggles, the two sisters hopped down from the 
cart, and went closer to look. The rest of the girls got down also, to stretch 
their legs and stomp for warmth. A few approached the curricle, and 
milled around, while the ladies gave them wary, cool glances.
Percy sat in the driver’s seat feeling like a lump, afraid to let go of 
Betsy’s reins, and torn between giving in entirely and helping these fancy 
people with whatever they asked, or holding her own and ignoring them.
Fortunately, it took only a few minutes of poking and prodding, and 
Niosta announced, “We can fix it, just need lugs, there’s two missing, is 
all. Found one down in the snow, so just need one more, and it’ll be all 
right and hold up.”
With an exhalation of relief, Percy nodded, then tied up the reins, and 
leaned under the seat for the toolbox. Grial kept one well stocked, 
fortunately, and there were lugs and nails and twine aplenty, together with 
hair pins and incomprehensible bits and pieces of heaven knows what.
In moments, the wheel was lifted up by several girls, and reattached 
properly to the axle pole. Catrine forcefully turned the lug nuts with her 
surprisingly strong and grimy little fingers (frequently blowing on them 
for warmth when they turned numb with cold), with Niosta hammering the 
lugs for good measure, calling them “rotted bastards” and periodically 
spitting in the snow. Then the whole lot of them tested the curricle by 
rocking it side to side, then shoving it a few steps forward and seeing it 
roll nicely.
They were done, and Lady Amaryllis, the one with the limp, 
immediately nodded her curt gratitude, and moved up with the two fancy 
horses, which the gentleman helped her hitch properly to the curricle.
“Remarkable! Excellent! Well done, and our thanks!” said he, a light-
hearted and frivolous expression returning to his handsome face. He drew 
out a handful of gold coins and passed them out to the girls nearest, then 
turned his back on the whole lot of them, as if they ceased to exist. The 
two ladies occupied themselves with dusting off their capes, re-loading 
their trunk, and then the one in a burgundy outfit was assisted back into 
the driver’s seat.
“Are you certain you can handle the driving, my dear?”
“Of course! Honestly, Nathan, you must know I am not driving with 
my feet!” she protested, and then they were talking and laughing in artful 
courtier tones once again.
Percy stopped listening, and while the girls giggled and counted 
coins, and took their time getting back in the cart, she adjusted the reins 
and said firmly, “Whoa, Betsy!”
But before they moved even a few steps, the black thoroughbreds and 
curricle and nobles all clattered forward and past them, flying north along 
the road.
“Well! That was rather interesting!” said Lizabette.
“Huh . . . I thought they’d turn back,” Percy said softly. “There are no 
more towns ahead of us, and that lady is more hurt than she realizes.”
“Stupid fancy lords’n ladies,” Regata said. “Where do they think 
they’re going anyway? The Northern Forest? Wouldn’t be surprised if 
they’re not right in their heads, after that wreck!”
“And then the black knight gets ’em!” Emilie giggled.
“First they need to make it that far. I say they break down again in a 
few miles.” Catrine swiped her nose with the back of her mitten. “And 
that’ll mean more coins for us!”
This is not a game, not for anyone, Percy thought. But she said 
nothing. The morning had grown brighter, as the sun rose and shimmered 
faintly like a pearl through the milky overcast of winter clouds.
“I’m hungry!” said Jenna. And she dug into a basket for leftover 
rolls. “Who wants some?”
We’re going to run out very soon. . . . Out of rolls, out of time, out of 
warmth, out of everything.
“I—this body—cannot walk—any farther,” whispered Claere Liguon.
They were drowning in snowdrifts waist deep. The Northern Forest 
was a sea of whiteness and bare tree trunks, with nothing but vaporous 
haze on every horizon, so that the sky and land blended into a uniform 
pallor. The only frame of reference was the rare fogged-over glimmer of 
the risen sun. Its disk appeared to be sliding through the cloud-mass 
overhead, fractured into angular shards of light against the dark silhouettes 
of infinite branches.
Vlau Fiomarre knew they were lost, had known it for some time now. 
And yet he followed the small pitiful shape of the dead Infanta as she 
stiffly and relentlessly moved forward for the last few hours of the night.
He had lost all sensation in his appendages. At first his feet and hands 
and face burned with the cold fire. Then all went numb, limbs moving 
through conscious will alone, as though not his own—someone else was 
making him put one foot ahead of the other. He was going to die very soon 
now; there was not the faintest doubt. . . . And yet, just as she remained 
undead, he was going to also become neither one thing nor the other, 
suspended in that hollow place between life and death.
Death is the loss of sensation . . . he pondered, taking shallow and 
ragged breaths of freezing air, each breath scalding his lungs.
And then the Infanta stopped. And she admitted she could go on no 
longer. “My body is—a corpse,” she uttered, each word issuing with a 
grating hiss of forced breath. “It has no warmth of its own—and has 
become too stiff—too frozen to allow movement in the joints by my will 
alone. Soon, I will be unable to talk. Once that happens, simply leave me 
be. Go back, find a road . . . and save yourself.”
“We are lost, and there is no road,” he panted. “Even if it were right 
behind us, I would not leave you now. We perish together—”
In response, came a faint terrible creak of laughter.
She stood, like a pillar of salt, faintly shaking in place in an effort to 
maintain vertical balance. “Perish?” she gasped. “There is no such relief in 
store for us! Unfortunately we will not perish, but we will freeze, and then 
malinger, yes! Covered by endless snow, unable to move, going softly 
mad, eternally, in the prisons of our bodies . . . until the spring thaw. And 
then, we will regain the use of our carcasses, and, as it warms up even 
more, we will perhaps start to rot, and worms will come to eat tunnels 
through this flesh and crawl throughout, and birds will come to peck—”
“Then I will not perish!” he snarled. “And it looks like your mouth is 
not frozen enough, and you can still talk quite well!”
Fury at himself—at her—it was the thing driving him onward, he 
recognized suddenly. Fury was all that remained.
And just as he was certain that all he could do was be consumed with 
it, alone within his own hell, there was something else. . . .
From a distance came the sound of wolves—nay, it was the baying of 
hounds in the forest, and then a distant noise of men perpetrating damage, 
comprised of breaking branches, crackling snow, and footsteps crunching, 
voices low and subdued.
All together—after the infinite white silence—they seemed like 
thunder, as they awkwardly broke the forest.
“No . . .” whispered the Infanta. “Oh, no . . . Please, you must cover 
me with snow, then run!”
“No!” he replied harshly, and suddenly lurched forward with all his 
remaining strength, narrowing the space between them. And he put his 
arms around her (around the lump of cold, the pillar of salt, the lifeless 
burden), and he lifted her up—and she was a dead weight, yet she was 
weightless in his hands and in his mind, like a dry withered stick—and he 
carried her, crashing forward, gasping for air, lungs convulsing with 
impossible effort. . . .
Snow was all around, coming to swallow him in its wintry quicksand; 
sharp branches struck his face, drawing thin ghoulish scratches upon his 
nunb, battered skin. And the sound soared on the wind, still carried in the 
distance, and drew closer . . . as yet he moved forward, wallowing, 
running . . . wallowing again.
He carried her thus, deeper into the Northern Forest.
Only an hour before noon, just as the girls approached the outskirts of the 
Northern Forest, and drew close enough to see the frozen white shores of 
Lake Merlait through the sparse trees in that direction, Betsy stopped in 
the middle of the road and refused to move any further.
Behind her, the cart rolled to a standstill.
“Whoa, Betsy!” said Percy, clucking and gently snapping the reins, to 
no avail.
Lizabette, taking her turn walking next to the cart, meaningfully 
stomped her feet in place to stay warm, while Sybil and Regata, walking 
next to her, decided to take the opportunity to use the nearby shrubbery to 
answer nature’s call.
“What’s the matter with her?” said Emilie, whose nose, red from the 
frost, was running. She had been sniffling and wiping it with the back of 
her mitten all morning.
“I don’t know.” Percy tied up the reins, removed her own mittens, 
and then slid down from the cart. Pulling her shawl back, she leaned down 
to examine each one of Betsy’s legs, then the hooves and shoes. Nothing 
seemed to be amiss.
She then checked the harness, the bit, and made sure the blanket was 
not chafing any of the spots where the leathers were tight.
Betsy’s nose was normal and lukewarm to the touch, vapor curling 
from her great nostrils. She moved her dark gentle eyes wherever Percy 
moved, and was as calm and healthy as anything.
“What in heaven’s name is wrong with her? We should be moving!”
“I really don’t know,” replied Percy, continuing her examination, 
walking around the large horse.
“Maybe she’s hungry too?” Jenna piped up from the back of the cart. 
“Should I could give her a roll?”
“No!” said Lizabette, Percy, and half the girls simultaneously.
“She has her grain in the bag, plenty of it. If we feed her rolls, we’re 
not going to have enough food for us, Jen,” explained Percy kindly.
“Want to try leading her, maybe? Pull her forward?” said Emilie, 
sniffling, and wiping herself with her dirty yellow coat sleeve.
Percy nodded, then took the bridle lead in the front of Betsy and 
attempted to pull the large draft horse behind her.
Nothing. Betsy made several unhappy snorts, and merely braced her 
legs against the beaten ground of the thoroughfare.
While they were occupied thus for several long minutes, several other 
strangers, mostly girls, passed them on the road.
Finally Percy climbed back into the driver’s seat in frustration, and 
took the reins, pulling and releasing them repeatedly, while making more 
clucking noises. She then wiped her forehead and pulled her shawl closer 
about her. The lump of cold fear in her stomach was back.
“Betsy,” she said at last, gently, relaxing the reins. “Where would you 
like to go?”
And suddenly, like a miracle, the draft horse moved. She took a few 
steps forward, but then started to lean them to the right side of the road—
the side away from the lake and closer to the forest. Finally Betsy 
approached the shoulder of the thoroughfare, and continued walking, 
directly into the shrubbery at the side of the road.
“Whoa!” exclaimed Percy, pulling the reins hard, thinking they were 
about to plunge directly into a snowdrift. But as they neared the very edge, 
the bushes parted around them. Percy realized that Betsy had found and 
followed a small but solid path off the main road. It meandered around tall 
drifts and trees, but it definitely led north and into the forest. And the 
amazing thing was, it was entirely invisible from the main thoroughfare, 
unless you knew to look for it.
“Smart girl, Betsy!” said Percy, with a grin of relief. “So this is why 
you stopped! You knew about this path, didn’t you?”
“But why would we want to use this tiny path leading Lord knows 
where, instead of the nice big road?” grumbled Lizabette. “It is unsafe!”
“Not so,” responded Percy. “Just think about it, everyone can see you 
on the big road. Anyone can ambush you. But here, we are on our own 
secret little walkway. Besides, I think Betsy knows exactly where she’s 
headed. Grial was right, Betsy would know the right direction!”
“That’s ridiculous,” Lizabette said. “How would a horse know the 
way to Death’s Keep? Is the way, perchance, lined with hay and carrots?”
“And how would we?” retorted Percy. “I think the horse has as good 
a chance as any of us, and likely better. If you don’t like it, you are 
welcome to continue on your own along the big road—the one that’s lined 
with broken carriages instead of carrots.”
“Right!” Lizabette snorted. But she grew silent and continued 
walking with the cart.
They proceeded moving along the path for a quarter of an hour, 
frequently making sharp turns as it meandered around trees (which 
appeared denser and denser) and shrubs and tall snowdrifts that had risen 
into winter hills.
Jenna and Sybil periodically whistled—Sybil raising her ruddy brows 
up and down in time to the tune, so that her pale freckled face was in 
constant fluid motion—while Emilie wiped her nose and broke into more 
and more frequent fits of coughing.
“Emilie, you need to cover up with that blanket, keep it over your 
face, and stay in the cart for the rest of the day,” said Percy, pointing to a 
bundle of their spare belongings in the back.
Emilie nodded with visible relief, breathing hoarsely, and climbed 
deeper in the back of the cart, then curled up under some burlap.
As the bleak sun rose higher, stopping to cast its fog-diffused glow 
from directly overhead, indicating noon, they noticed a change in the 
general silence.
It came from within the forest. Far away, echoed the sounds that only 
men make, when men are soldiers on a hunt.
“Oh, this is just perfect!” Lizabette hissed. “Look where this accursed 
path is taking us! Directly into danger! If only we had stayed on the big 
road!”
“Hush!” Percy hissed, right back at her. “No one has seen us yet, and 
no one says they must—if we stay quiet and take care! We have to go 
forward into the deep forest at some point or another, you knew that very 
well all along, didn’t you? It’s the one thing we must do eventually, is go 
into the forest!”
“So then we’ll just get caught, sooner than later!”
In that moment, as the two of them were facing off, just up ahead, 
and from very nearby, came the soft sound of shifting snow. Then, a 
single branch cracked . . . but it was enough. It had originated directly off 
the path, a couple of feet away from Betsy.
Everyone, in the cart and walking beside it, froze.
Percy grabbed the reins to pull up Betsy, and held them tight. So 
tight, she could barely feel her fingers. . . .
The snowdrift fell apart to reveal two possibly human shapes—and 
maybe the shadow of a third, but no, there was no one else, Percy blinked
—that had been completely buried in the white powder. A man wearing 
shabby inadequate clothing, with dark hair and skin that was wan from the 
cold, held close to him another tightly bundled shape, vaguely female. She 
was covered in a faded and worn red cloak over grey spun wool, and 
appeared motionless.
“Please . . .” said the man in a croaking voice, then was interrupted 
by a fit of coughing. “Please do not be afraid, I am unarmed! Please . . . 
help us! My—sister here is very ill, and I beg a stranger’s kindness only
—” 
He took a few steps forward, and Percy watched him hold on to the 
bundled girl—if that is what it was—with extreme care.
For one tense moment, everyone in the cart and around it stared.
“Are you Jack Frost?” said Jenna suddenly. “’Cause if you are, and 
you look all blue, I am not scared of you.”
“Stop! You say you  are unarmed,”  Percy said, ignoring the 
youngster. “Put your ‘sister’ down and show your hands.”
Another long pause.
Then the man very gently lowered the precious bundle he was 
holding, so that she lay on the path at his feet in the snow. One death-
white hand could be seen, as it slipped from under her covering. He 
straightened, putting both his arms out slowly so they could see.
“His hands are blue too!” Jenna was fascinated, forgetting all fear. 
“And look, her hand is pure white, like clean snow! She must be the Snow 
Maiden! I knew it, Jack, admit it, you are Frost himself!”
“Oh, hush already, Jenna!” Flor spoke up, though not unkindly. 
“Lord, but you have a mouth on you, child!”
But Percy continued looking at him, closely . . . because the stranger 
before her was full of inexplicable dissonance. And it seemed there was a 
shadow standing just behind him . . . or maybe kneeling . . . or lying on the 
ground. But then it was gone, when again she blinked.
He was handsome, in that strange fierce way that some men with 
really dark hair could be, and his features were fine, exquisite even. And 
yet, they appeared damaged somehow, swollen, as if they bore the 
aftermath of heavy bruises.
Niosta seemed to have read Percy’s mind, because she blurted from 
the back of the cart, “Looks like he took a beating. . . .”
“I am unarmed . . .” repeated the man softly, continuing to stand with 
his arms opened wide.
From the distance the sound of men and hounds came brazen and 
resonant, and possibly closer. . . .
“Who are you?” Percy said, in a voice betraying nothing.
“I am nobody. And my poor sister here is even less . . . I beg you 
show us kindness.”
“Are they after you?” Regata, standing nearest Betsy, observed the 
stranger warily. For the first time her friendly, calm demeanor became 
opaque, and her gloved fingers tugged nervously at the fine forest green 
wool of her well-tailored Letheburg coat. “Because this is Chidair land, 
and the black knight must be out hunting right now, I expect—”
“No!” he hastened to reassure. “They are hunting, yes, but not us—no 
one knows about us, and we pose no danger to you, on that I swear—”
“Is your sister very sick?” Lizabette interrupted. “Why is she not 
moving? What is wrong with her? Is she contagious?”
Percy thought she saw an unusual intensity in his expression, almost 
the hauteur of a nobleman. But it was fleeting, and then he shook his head 
wearily. “No, not contagious. . . . But she is very ill—from the  cold. 
Please, if I might ask you to allow us to travel with you? I will walk, and 
she needs but a small place in the cart, to rest—”
“How many more people are we going to fit in this cart?” said 
Lizabette. “What are we, a traveling tinker circus?”
“You did not seem to mind when those three aristos wanted to take 
up seats here. Besides, we are on walking rotation,” Percy reminded. 
“There is room.”
“Yes, well, but at this rate, for how long? Emilie is already out of 
rotation with a chill, there’s all our bundled stuff, and now this sick girl 
too! Meanwhile, you’re sitting pretty all the way, and giving everyone 
orders—”
“I am driving this damn cart!” said Percy.
“Aw, c’mon, there is plenty of room still,” muttered Catrine, while 
Niosta and Flor nodded.
“She can have my place!” said Jenna, hopping out of the cart.
That decided it.
“All right, get her up here,” said Percy to the man, maintaining a 
gruff, stern voice. “But don’t try anything, because if you do, we will take 
you down like a steer, and truss you up, and leave you to freeze.”
“Yeah, and we’ll take your pants too! And your shirt and cloak!” said 
Niosta, while Catrine chortled. “My Pa robs carriages for a living an’e 
show us how to deal with fools like you!”
“Thank you,” the dark-haired stranger said, in a serious tone, ignoring 
the jesting. He carefully picked up the bundle that was his sister. As Percy 
watched, it seemed for a moment that another shadow-form lay in the 
snow right next to the bundled girl. But again, merely a strange trick of the 
hazy light. . . .
“Are you sure she ain’t dead?” Niosta muttered, watching the stiff 
shape being placed in the cart, cloak arranged over her, face still in 
shadow, mostly covered, and only two very limp white hands now 
showing.
But then, like clockwork, one hand moved—almost like a doll, it 
might have seemed—and she clutched the wool, drawing it to her. A 
rasping female voice sounded.
“Where—are we?”
“Oh good, you’re still with us,” Sibyl said with an effort at cheer.
“So now, who are you two? And what are your names?”
“You . . . may . . . call me . . . Claere. . . .” The new girl in the cart 
spoke with difficulty. She had a peculiar way of breathing before uttering 
each word, and Percy assumed it was due to a raging chest cold from 
which she must have been suffering. Her hood slipped aside to reveal a 
girl with very sickly white skin, and with great haunting eyes, appearing 
overlarge in her pinched, oval face.
“Oooh! We may call you? Well, your high and mighty Majesty, so 
glad you oblige us with your dee-light’ul name!” Catrine teased, not 
unkindly.
The man gave her a hard, almost stunned look, while Percy said, 
“That’s enough now, leave her be.”
She then gently moved the reins and directed Betsy forward. The cart 
began to roll, with more girls walking, and the man walking also, right 
alongside his resting sister.
“And what should we call you?” Percy directed her question at him.
“Jack Frost!” exclaimed Jenna.
“Vlau,” he responded. “But you can call me anything you like.”
“I expect, I shall be calling you and everyone ‘run!’ very soon, if the 
hunters come upon us. By the way, I’m Percy Ayren, from Oarclaven, and 
we’re all Cobweb Brides. Some of us have been walking from as far back 
as south of Letheburg. Our journey lies into the forest, to Death’s Keep.”
“Good,” he said. “Because our journey lies in the same direction.”
Chapter 11
Lady Amaryllis drove the Curricle of Doom bravely forward despite a 
lingering ache in her ankle. Seated at her side, Lord Nathan gave her 
frequent close glances throughout their lighthearted banter. Behind them, 
in the smaller back seat, next to the travel chest, Lady Ignacia made 
herself comfortable against a pillow and pretended to doze, with her fur-
trimmed hood raised against the wind, concealing both her plumed hat and 
her chilled face.
“Are  you   holding  up  well,  Ignacia,  darling?”  said  Amaryllis 
flippantly, as they made their way in the full but hazy daylight, with sparse 
trees and Lake Merlait on the left side, and thick forest on the right.
“Goodness, you’re the one with the sprained ankle, m’dear! Heaven 
only knows why you must insist we continue this silly excursion! As for 
me, I am utterly bored and exhausted,” retorted Ignacia in a similar tone. 
“Was just making a brave attempt at sleep, in order to dream of food—you 
know, succulent filet of smoked salmon drowning in white sauce, and 
roast duck in cream and mushroom puff pastry with dill and chives—”
“Stop that immediately! Ah, but you are far more evil than 
Amaryllis!” Nathan exclaimed. “And speaking of pastry, what have we 
that’s even remotely edible in that trunk next to you? If I recall, only the 
bread and croissants seem to have any flavor to them. . . .”
While they chattered, there was a sudden explosion of sound in the 
forest, just a few feet off the right side of the thoroughfare.
A horn blared deafeningly. . . .
And then dark figures mounted on horses, and even more men on 
foot, burst out everywhere around them. . . . Snowdrifts stirred, and more 
figures rose up, moving like elemental creatures of winter, white and slate 
and grizzled silver all in motion. Were they even human?
Amaryllis  could barely keep hold of the reins as her black 
thoroughbreds reared up, for the second time in one day, neighing in 
terrified fury, as they were immediately grabbed from all directions by 
dark soldiers. There were vague flashes of ice-blue surcoats emblazoned 
with insignias, and then the curricle was jerked and held, by a least half a 
dozen mail-clad men-at-arms.
Amaryllis cried out, and Nathan and Ignacia’s voices sounded next to 
her and behind—
“Halt, upon pain of death! Stay where you are! Do not move!” The 
command was issued by several of the mounted helmed men, in peculiar 
strained or stilted voices, while another announced: “You are trespassing 
on Chidair land! What is your excuse?”
After the first shock, Amaryllis had regained her tongue. “Chidair 
land? Since when is a major thoroughfare considered Chidair land? We 
are noble travelers of consequence, on a free road, and this is an outrage! 
How dare you accost us or hold us? And as for ‘pain of death,’ gracious, 
where have you been?”
In reply the speaker laughed harshly. “Where have I been? If you 
must know, M’Lady, I’ve been in battle, and I’ve been slaughtered, and 
yet, here I sit!” Speaking thus, he removed his dirt-stained, dented helmet 
and revealed a grey bloodless face, frozen-motionless eyes, and what 
appeared to be a major gaping wound to his skull.
Amaryllis gave a scream and shrank back, dropping the reins in 
reflex. Nathan gasped.
“Yes, you see, pretty Lady, I’m a dead man. And so are most of the 
rest of us. Now, answer the question, what are you doing here? Or else 
you’ll learn the meaning of ‘pain of death’ without actually dying!”
“We are traveling from the Silver Court,” said Lord Woult with grim 
determination. “And as such, you have no claim on us, not even if this 
were Chidair territory instead of a free road.”
“Any Cobweb Brides here?” said a soldier leaning in from behind the 
curricle, drawing close and grinning wide with his own dead face—pale 
and bared of helm, and sporting even more gruesome mortal wounds 
across the neck and jaw, a hollowed eye socket, severed ligaments and 
sinew and raw bluish-violet flesh. Ignacia made a small stifled sound, then 
drew away as far as possible from him, leaning forward.
“Maybe . . .” said Amaryllis.
“In that case, you are to surrender now, upon the orders of Duke Ian 
Chidair—and lo, here is Hoarfrost Himself, arrived to deal with you!”
And as the denizens of the curricle looked on, the soldiers on all sides 
moved aside as from the right of the road, on the forest side, out of the 
snowdrifts and the overgrown hedge, emerged a tall warhorse. Mounted 
on it, sat a huge giant of a man. His barrel chest was clad in a damaged 
and tattered blue surcoat with Chidair crest and colors, covered with 
multiple faded bloodstains, poorly fitting loose mail plate over a damaged 
hauberk, and neither helm nor gauntlets. His wild tangled hair stood up 
like an unruly briar covered in frozen bits of lake bracken, leaves, twigs 
and other indescribable dirt. He was thus stained from head to toe, soaked 
and marinated in the lake, and then frozen . . . and lastly, dusted with 
snow.
However, the most disturbing part of him was his eyes—eyeballs 
opened wide and frozen in place, motionless and unblinking.
“Welcome to my lands, three pretty ladies! Or is there a lad amongst 
you? Aha, yes! A pretty lordling, I see!” Hoarfrost’s voice was a deep 
bellowing roar, and each word punctuated with hissing breaths driven by a 
mechanism of solid gears.
“I am Lord Nathan Woult, and your so-called welcome leaves much 
to be desired, Duke,” said the young man bravely, attempting to rise from 
his seat in the curricle. But he was immediately pushed back down by two 
thick mail-clad arms, as burly soldiers held him motionless.
“Stay, boy, stay!” roared Hoarfrost. “Are you a Cobweb Bride too? 
Or is it just these two lovelies?”
“How dare you!” Amaryllis could hold back no longer. “Have you no 
fear of the Emperor? Or is your honor besmirched entirely? Now that you 
are neither dead nor alive—yes, I can see quite well by your utterly filthy 
appearance—do you answer to Death alone, or perchance to no one at 
all?”
Hoarfrost bellowed with laughter. “You have said it, by my arse! 
Exactly so, girlie! I now answer to no one, and least of all to Death, the 
cold bastard! Now shut your pretty mouth, and sit tight, as I take you all to 
be my honored guests! That’s right, you are all guests of the Duke Chidair 
now, and as such, you will sit pretty in my Keep! And if you please me 
well, I will let you stay among the living a wee bit longer!”
“Provincial savage!” said Amaryllis, while Nathan squeezed her arm 
meaningfully, so that she remain quiet.
But Hoarforst ignored her completely now. He continued shaking 
with laughter, as he sputtered to his men: “Take them away and put them 
with the others. And take care with the excellent horses and that fancy 
bit’o carriage—”
But as he started to turn away, Ignacia’s voice sounded, ringing loud 
and unusually forceful, from the back seat of the curricle.
“Wait, Duke Hoarfrost, Ian Chidair! You might want to listen to what 
I have to say to you!”
“Oh, Ignacia, hush!” 
Duke Hoarfrost paused and then slowly turned around, his barrel 
chest, perforated with holes, hissing loudly in the general silence. “And 
what have you to say, little bird?”
“Only this—you have been told to expect me.”
Hoarfrost stilled entirely. No hiss of breath; only macabre frozen 
eyeballs regarded her.
“I am the one,” continued Ignacia, a fierce new energy coming to her 
usually complacent and vacuous pretty face. “The one sent to parlay with 
you on behalf of Her Brilliance, Rumanar Avalais, the Sovereign of the 
Domain, and soon to be the sole ruler of all the surrounding territories.”
And as Lady Amaryllys and Lord Nathan stared at their dearest 
“friend” in shock, observing her in an entirely new light, all manner of 
details suddenly clicking into place, she continued:
“I am the Right Honorable Lady Ignacia Chitain of Balmue, and my 
true allegiance lies with the Sapphire Court and its Sovereign, and none 
other. For several years now I have been placed within the Silver Court to 
infiltrate and report to my real liege, and I am now at liberty to disclose 
my true role to you, because of the present circumstances.”
“Ignacia . . .” whispered Amaryllis, while blood drained from her 
cheeks, and cramps of ice seized her innards. “Is this a—joke?”
But her friend did not even deign to glance at her. “No joke at all, 
Lady Amaryllis. My apologies to you—and to Lord Woult—for the 
continued deception. It was nothing personal.”
The Duke’s hissing bellows came to life again. “How do I know that 
you do not lie now, and this is not an elaborate bit of nonsense to escape 
my hold?” Hoarfrost uttered, measuring every word.
Ignacia had a quick answer. “The missive you have received 
contained an invitation from the Sovereign to form an alliance against the 
King of Lethe and the Emperor of the Realm. In exchange for your 
cooperation, you were offered neither Life, nor Death, but the guarantee of 
perfect Eternity.”
About an hour after noon, Percy asked everyone if they wanted to take a 
small break. The forest remained noisy with men, distant echoes and 
footfalls and voices coming from all directions, but so far they had been 
amazingly fortunate, and the little path had kept them safely meandering 
deeper into the woodland.
Next to a comfortably large snow-hillock and several thick bushes, 
Percy pulled up Betsy, and the cart stopped.
“Quiet, quiet, now! For the love of God, keep quiet!” Lizabette 
repeated, as the girls scattered behind bushes to take care of bodily needs.
Percy got out Betsy’s grain bag and hung it around the horse’s neck 
for her to feed. There was no time to unhitch Betsy and get comfortable; 
this was going to be a short rest stop. She then stomped around to wake up 
her numb feet in their thick woolen wrappings. A few steps away, the man 
called Vlau stood hunched over and motionless, near the equally 
motionless, pitiful Claere, where she lay in the cart right next to sniffling 
Emilie and a few small sacks of their belongings. What a sorry sight they 
all made. . . .
“You hungry?” said Percy, looking at him. “We have a roll or two to 
spare, for you and your sister.” She then took out the basket with the bread 
and pulled out two flour-dusted rolls, now day-old, but perfectly edible 
and tasty.
He looked up with weary apathy, and started to refuse.
“Eat! It’ll warm you up.”
“My sister—she is too sick to eat.”
“Well, then you eat, and we’ll see to her later.” 
He paused, parting his lips, about to speak, considering . . . when 
Percy reached out and put a roll in his hands.
“Take it. I’ll be back in a moment. Meanwhile, don’t try anything, all 
right?” Not waiting for him to respond, Percy then turned away, bit off a 
big chunk of the other roll, and while still chewing, went into the 
shrubbery to take care of her own natural business.
When she returned, most of the girls were back, and Flor, the baker’s 
daughter, was busy making a small fire in a hastily dug pit. “Bring me 
twigs, dry sticks, pine needles, pine cones, tree bark—anything you see! I 
can use it all to stoke the fire. Anything you bring, just watch, I can use to 
make a fire,” she whispered bossily, tucking long wisps of flax-blond hair 
out of her face and deeper under her kerchief shawl, and several girls 
immediately started looking.
While they were milling about, it started to snow.
“Oh, just what we need,” Lizabette grumbled, shivering, as large 
fluttering snowflakes landed on her lashes and cheeks. She pulled her coat 
collar up, and her hat lower down over her ears. Her long nose was red, 
and for that matter, so was everyone else’s.
“What if someone sees the smoke from the fire?” Sibyl asked.
“They won’t,” retorted Flor. “Not with my fire and my snow pit they 
won’t.”
And interestingly, she was right—she had arranged the walls of the 
snow pit just so and perforated them with several horizontal outlet tunnel 
holes, so that the smoke was oddly diffused and never rose more than a 
foot off the ground before dispersing.
When the little fire was burning steadily, fed by endless twigs and 
other kindling, Regata brought out a small iron kettle, and packed it full of 
clean snow for boiling water.
“What are we going to do for tea?” said Jenna, as the girls all 
gathered around the fire pit, and took off their mittens to warm reddened 
fingers against the rising steam. “Should I gather bark?”
“Bark tea? What an abomination. . . .” Lizabette vigorously rubbed 
her frost-bitten fingers, then held them splayed over the warm vapors 
escaping the boiling water. “Might as well brew dirt.”
“Check the basket.” Percy pointed to the bundle with the rolls and 
other supplies. “I think Ronna, bless her, gave us a small bag of real tea 
leaves.”
The tea was immediately located and a generous pinch went into the 
boiling water. Then Jenna and Regata uncovered two drinking mugs of 
fired clay, and they were filled with tea and passed around, warming many 
small frozen hands and fingers, not to mention their insides.
Percy sipped the heavenly warmth when it was her turn, then took her 
mug to the cart, and offered it to Emilie who pulled off the blanket from 
her miserable face just so that she could drink.
“How are you, child?” Percy held the back of her hand to the other’s 
burning forehead.
Emilie muttered something incoherent, then wrapped herself back in 
the blanket.
Percy returned to the fire to refill the mug, and this time she 
approached Vlau and his sister.
He took the mug without protest. “Thank you . . . I—I will give it to 
her myself.”
Percy watched as he drank a few eager gulps, then leaned forward, 
barely pulled back Claere’s hood, and made a show of trying to pour the 
hot tea past the sick girl’s lips.
For some reason, Percy’s gaze lingered on the two of them, lingered 
closely. And she noted the way most of the liquid seemed to miss the 
mouth and dribble on her chin. . . . And how the color of the girl’s face 
was so ashen white, so incredibly unreal, and the lips were bluish, with not 
a hint of blood underneath the skin. . . .
And then Percy blinked, and she saw it, a shadow lying alongside the 
sick girl in the cart. The shadow was like smoke and dark soot, and it 
looked exactly like the smoky shape at her grandmother’s bedside back at 
home in Oarclaven.
Percy recognized it, and she suddenly knew.
“Vlau,” she said in a soft voice. “You don’t need to give her any 
more tea. You know what she is, don’t you? If you do not—I am very 
sorry to have to tell you this, but—your sister is no longer alive. She—she 
is not going to need tea or rolls ever again. . . .”
He looked up at her, with his dark intense, stricken gaze.
“How did you know?”
Percy shrugged, then sighed. “I just know. I can see . . . some things, 
I suppose.”
“What things?”
“There’s a shadow,” said Percy, speaking very quietly, so that the 
girls giggling around the fire and sharing chunks of bread would have no 
chance of hearing. “The shadow is next to her. I think—it is her true 
death. But because all death has stopped, the shadow has nowhere to go, 
nothing to do. So it just waits there, at her side. At each person’s side. I 
know, because I have seen it before.”
“Please . . .” he said, “I beg—I ask you not to tell anyone.”
“I won’t.”
He nodded, with some relief.
In that moment, the hood over Claere’s face moved back, swept by a 
thin, show-white hand, delicate as a swan’s neck.
Clare’s great hollowed eyes, frozen into eternal stillness in their 
sockets, were watching Percy.
It seemed, all her soul was contained in that silent gaze.
And then the dead lips parted, and there was an inhalation of breath. 
“Thank . . . you . . .” whispered the dead girl, as her breath gently faded. 
And then she was again silent, disappearing into herself.
Percy gave a small nod, then left them be, and returned to the warmth 
of the fire.
In a quarter of an hour they were done with eating and tea and 
restoring some warmth into their bodies. Flor put out the fire with the 
same care she used to create it, and she sprinkled delicate handfuls of 
snow gradually on the dying embers, so that the resulting smoke was 
absorbed and dispersed low on the earth. In the end, they piled more snow 
to create a drift in place where the fire pit had been, so that no one would 
know. And then Catrine and Niosta used branches to dust and smooth the 
snow all around their campsite.
“They will still see our footprints, will they not?” asked Jenna.
“They might. But then, they’ll also see Betsy’s hoof prints and the 
wheel tracks. Nothing can be done about it. Let’s go!”
“Let me just sweep this bit, just a little more—”
“No, Jen! No need, the best we can do now is be on our way. Now, 
climb in the cart! Hurry!” Percy spoke firmly, and Jenna scurried to obey 
her.
“Percy, you know how, back home, the older women all get together 
and talk?” Flor suddenly said in a low voice, while getting in the cart and 
settling down directly behind Percy.
“Yeah, I know.” Percy wondered what this was leading up to.
“Well,” said Flor. “Supposedly your Ma always complains that you 
are slow-witted and can’t do anything right. But what I think, is—you’re 
just pretending. You pretend you cannot do anything when in fact you can 
do all kinds of things . . . really well. Like what you’re doing now.”
Percy said nothing.
“I mean,” Flor continued, “it’s not just you. My Ma talks about me, 
too. She says these things about me, calls me an idiot and a slowpoke, 
when all I do is work and work around the oven, and she just complains 
and gives me more and more to do—”
Percy still said nothing, and picked up the reins.
“—so what I’m trying to say is, Percy—you don’t need to pretend 
any more. Not with me, or any of us. And—” here, Flor finished in a 
whisper—“thank you for taking care of us so well.”
I’ve stopped pretending a while ago. . . . Ever since I walked out of 
my father’s house, knowing it will be for the last time.
Percy silently drove the cart.
Claere Liguon, daughter of the Emperor, lay huddled against coarse 
wooden planks, on a thin layer of hay covering the floor of the jostling 
peasant cart.
She had never been near hay in her life—nor would she ever be, now
—but in death, she now experienced its simple brittle softness.
Hay and snow. . . .
On one side of her corpse, right underneath her stiff ivory elbow, 
were baskets and satchels of unknown stuff underneath canvas and burlap. 
A large lumpy sack butted up against her waist from the back, and she—
her cold lifeless body—felt the strange sensory distance of its touch, as 
though perceiving the world through thick molasses. And on the other side 
of Claere was a very sick peasant girl, cuddled in a thin blanket, coughing 
and sneezing every few moments, and blissfully unaware of who or what 
reposed right next to her.
There were more female shapes and voices all around, some girls 
seated in the cart, others walking right next to it.
All sound was surreal—slightly distorted, elongated, as if coming 
from a distance of thick atmospheric layers, or as though heard through 
water.
She listened to the strangeness, or listened despite it—to the soft 
whisper-level litany of their conversation, occasional gentle banter, bursts 
of giggles, and then long bouts of weary silence . . . at which point the 
resounding silence of the forest was revealed, woods oppressed by the 
weight of snow, and the crackle of timber, the slithering of the ice 
wind. . . .
A large pale draft-horse pulled their cart. And the driver was another 
peasant girl, her solid back covered with a length of woolen shawl, which 
was all that Claere could see directly from her vantage point. That girl, 
Percy, was far quieter than the others, introspective. And this one knew 
somehow, had known Claere’s true condition with an uncanny sixth sense.
Claere recalled a sympathetic steady gaze of intelligent eyes of an 
indeterminate swamp color, somewhere between blue and grey and green, 
and more like slate ashes. The girl’s round peasant face with its cold-
reddened features was bland, but the strange depth of the expression gave 
her away somehow as something more complex. . . .
She sees me, sees my death. Who is she? And why can she see this 
when no one else can?
Claere’s stray random thoughts were like winged things beating 
against the shutters of her body, her broken human shell. She lay back and 
watched the grey pallor of the winter sky through glass eyes, while the 
cloak hood had shifted from her face, giving her a wide panoramic view. 
Clouds of varied whiteness and vapor and darkness sailed across the 
sphere of heaven, streaking past each other in infinite layers of cotton and 
torn smoke. The depth of heaven overhead was infinite.
Clare—the  conscious thing  that was Clare—felt a pull, a reeling 
vertigo, until she imagined herself lifting like a bird and then falling 
inversely into the distance of sky, a soul taken at last. . . . If she could 
breathe, she would be breathless with the infinity, if she could cry, there 
would be a river pouring out of her. . . .
But she had been drained of all her waters already, days ago. And her 
river that had run red and abundant like wine was now all gone—for what 
is blood but the wine of life?—while she, what remained of herself, was 
but a flopping, convulsing fish in its final gritty dregs.
And he—the man who had done this to her, the murderer and the 
victim in one—now walked at her side. There he paced, with only wooden 
planks of the side-rail wall of the cart between them. And she felt his 
overwhelming presence somehow, felt  him  with more clarity than 
anything else in her world.
Marquis Vlau Fiomarre.
She had taken to repeating his name in her mind upon occasion, she 
noticed this recently. And she was doing it now, again, repeating the name 
like a litany, a strange prayer. It had started when she first learned it, the 
name of her murderer. And at first she savored its knife-edge sound in 
order to fathom him, his motives. But in the forest, earlier today, when 
they had been on the run, she realized that she had been repeating his 
name as an anchor, holding on to the shape of it in her mind as he carried 
her through the forest, as she felt the wall of his body around her, through 
the veils of thickness—of her death—felt him lifting her, bearing her 
aloft. . . .
Vlau Fiomarre.
She sensed him now, walking at her side, for he was ever nearby. He 
had remained with her strangely, maybe out of guilt, or maybe driven by 
remnants of the need for vengeance. A wave of cold distant fear inundated 
her, as she imagined for a moment what kind of new exquisite revenge he 
could possibly have in mind, what other thing of occult dread and evil he 
might attempt to do to her, the “accursed Liguon.”
But then just as easily the fear and suspicion drained from her. And 
she knew with a sudden surety that it was no longer what bound them.
She remembered his face, every moment of him seared into her mind, 
from that first fateful instant he stood before her in the Silver Hall, to the 
moments of his dark raging passion as he stood in chains and told his mad 
story of injustice.
And now, all she had from him was a dark fathomless intensity. It 
encompassed him, this intensity, this darkness, this infinite focused 
presence.
She was drowning in it, in its abysmal virile strength. And somehow, 
just at the edges, there was a new thing. . . .
A craving was born.
Vlau Fiomarre.
She could never admit it, nor would she divulge it, not even to herself 
much   less   to   him—the   murderer,   madman,   her   anchor,   and   her 
destruction.
In truth, she did not even have the words for it, for this desire—
whether for constancy, for unwavering strength, or merely for a fixed 
point in her storm. He was her death—and yet, her blade of life, of clarity, 
to cut through the thick roiling swamp of personal darkness.
She needed him.
Vlau.
Another half hour, and the snow started to really come down, while the 
shadow of the weakling sun disappeared completely through the thick 
afternoon clouds. The wind increased—enough to cause small spinning 
flurries, and to make it feel bitterly cold—as Betsy, the cart, and its 
occupants slowly advanced along the path.
Despite the frequent meandering, they and the path were moving 
directly north.
And now, their entire world had become a lace veil of falling 
whiteness.
Betsy plodded forward through the snow, her hooves leaving deeper 
prints in the fresh power with every minute, as the newly fallen flakes 
accumulated.
The girls whose turn it was to walk next to the cart had their meager 
cloaks and shawls and winter coverings pulled tightly over their faces, so 
that in most cases only the eyes were showing. They walked, leaning into 
the wind, taking each step forward with effort.
Those in the cart huddled together and used whatever spare blankets 
they had to cover themselves.
Vlau, the only man among them, paced onward relentlessly, holding 
on to the cart next to where lay Claere. The dead girl moved her lily-white 
hands occasionally to pull the cloak over her face whenever the wind 
revealed too much of it.
Percy drew her nice wool shawl as much over her nose as possible 
and periodically tucked each mittened hand under the shawl for extra 
warmth, holding the reins with the other. She wrapped her skirts as closely 
as she could over her knees and legs. Still, whenever the wind gusts blew 
hard in her direction, she could feel the cold’s fiery bite through the 
insufficient fabric and along her upper thighs. Underneath, her old, well-
worn cotton stockings were inadequate for such long winter exposure. At 
least her wrapped feet were still dry. . . .
We are going to die, all of us, tonight.
And then, as soon as she thought it, reality immediately intruded, 
cheerfully reminding her that there was no longer the option to die—not 
for any of them, no matter what. Death had ceased, and they were all 
being given a bizarre reprieve.
Well then, we are simply going to freeze to the point of death, but 
continue to move onward like toy soldiers, our bodies shutting down, 
burning with cold fire then growing numb, yet still imprisoning us. Not a 
bad prospect!
Lord help her, Percy was growing more amused with every mad 
thought. Indeed, this was insanity—and, at the same time, it was more 
cheerful and yet more depressing to contemplate than ordinary death that 
would have been so final. . . .
To stop herself from such morbid amusement, Percy glanced behind 
her and, in a low voice, asked how everyone was doing.
Several voices mumbled that they were all right, or tired, or simply 
cold.
Seated next to Percy this time, Lizabette wondered out loud if they 
were ever going to stop for the night—that is, when the night actually 
arrived.
“When it starts getting dark,” Percy said. “We still have at least three 
hours of daylight. See, the snow is starting to let up a bit.”
“Lordy, but how quiet it is!” Jenna suddenly said from the back of the 
cart.
And it was true. Everyone noticed that there were no more distant 
voices, no more baying of hounds echoing through the forest. Even the 
snowfall had slowed somewhat, and with it they had a return of slightly 
better visibility. Only the wind gusts continued their ragged whistle-song 
among the tree branches.
“The patrols must have gone home.” Regata was hunched over and 
holding the fur-trimmed edges of her hoodlet closely over her face.
“Or maybe they’ve stopped for a bite to eat.”
“Or maybe,” Percy said thoughtfully, “a changing of the guard.”
“They’re on rotation too!” Jenna giggled through her shawl, keeping 
her face from the most direct wind gusts.
“Hush!” Lizabette turned around and shoved the younger girl on the 
arm. Jenna quieted and put her mitten to her mouth.
But it was too late. . . .
In that instant, a terrible noise sounded from directly up ahead. It 
signified their greatest fear—a heavy weight of pounding iron hooves, 
ringing mail plate, the wild crackle of striking branches, and the angry 
neighing of more than one great war beast forced to plunge forward in an 
attack. . . .
“Run!” exclaimed Percy. “Everybody, run!”
The cart exploded with motion. The girls sprang up and scattered, 
many helping each other, some grabbing their small sacks of belongings. 
Semi-conscious Emilie was dragged down, together with her blanket, and 
carried bodily by Regata and Sibyl into the nearest shrubbery.
Vlau, his eyes flaring with life, momentarily froze with inaction. It 
seemed he was actually considering whether to stay and fight, because his 
hands reached for a non-existent sword at his side.
Good grief, is he a nobleman, or at least someone in the service of 
the upper crust? Well, that explains some things. . . .
He threw one maddened glance at Percy. But seeing her motioning 
him away wildly, he turned to his sole responsibility, his lifeless sister, 
and he picked her up and carried her in his arms, running into the forest.
Percy alone remained. Why? She was unsure. But Grial had asked her 
to do this, and Flor had thanked her, and she couldn’t exactly leave 
Betsy. . . .
Seated in the driver’s seat, latched onto Betsy’s reins with an iron 
grip, she held her breath. Her mind was reeling, and a brick of cold terror 
settled in her gut.
They were upon her in three heartbeats.
First, several running foot soldiers came crashing on both sides of the 
path, moving in parallel with it. In their wake, two mounted figures moved 
suddenly to cross it, and then—as though noticing the trail’s existence for 
the first time—immediately returned and entered the path directly. The 
first, on a bay horse, was a light rider in leathers, with a pale blue surcoat 
with Chidair crest and colors, over a chain hauberk, and bearing a lance.
Behind him, on a pure black charger, came he, fully plated, and 
helmed, dull ebony metal covering every inch of him, and nothing 
showing, not even eyes, under the lowered faceplate.
The black knight.
As the others came thundering past, the lance bearer paused, seeing 
Percy, but the black knight motioned with his hand, and the rider moved 
onward, riding off the path and into the forest to hunt the others. The rest 
of them passed by like a thundering wave, and were gone.
It was thus that the black knight alone came to a stop before Percy 
and Betsy and the cart.
In that moment, a hard gust of wind whistled directly at her, and 
Percy shivered. . . .
The black war stallion, controlled by  his  great gauntleted hand, 
slowed to a measured walk, a monster becoming docile. It took three more 
paces, and then stilled, just a hand-span away from Betsy. It was a 
testament to how truly enormous the stallion was, that next to him, the 
thick-limbed draft horse appeared a tiny filly.
In the new silence Betsy snorted.
Percy stared directly ahead, and up at him.
And the black knight regarded her.
“Who are you, girl?” he asked, in a surprisingly soft and weary 
baritone. “Are you, too, a Cobweb Bride?”
Whatever it was about his voice,  something, maybe the mortal 
weariness—Percy could not be sure—but it emboldened her, just so that 
she recollected herself enough to breathe.
“And what if I am?” she said in an unusually insolent voice, 
meanwhile   amazed   at   herself,   at   her   own,   previously   unheard-of 
intonation.
“Then regretfully I must take you with me.”
Percy felt a sort of breathless madness come to her, fill her head to 
bursting. . . . She tied off the reins, got down from the cart, and then 
walked forward to stand directly before him.
“And what if I refuse to go? What will you do, slay me on the spot, 
Sir Knight? Oh, wait, that does not work anymore.”
Gusts of wind blew in the pause of silence.
“You are trespassing,” he then said quietly. “What do you think 
should be done with you? Oh, wait, hacking your limbs off will still 
work.”
“Do you really need another disembodied arm or leg? Why not 
simply let me go? I’ll be on my way and out of your lands before you 
know it. My business, Sir Knight, is not with you but with Death and his 
Keep.”
Did she imagine it, or did the knight sigh?
“It is precisely for that reason why I may not allow you to go on. But
—enough dawdling. Here, take my hand and come with me willingly, or 
be lifted up by the scruff of that shawl of yours. . . .” And speaking thus, 
he pressed his war stallion forward and bent down from the saddle to 
reach for her.
Percy reacted to the great black gauntlet moving in her face, and she 
sprang back with agility, and ended up behind Betsy, and then on the other 
side of the cart. While the immense weight of the metal plates of the 
knight made them clang together like wicked bells tolling, he and his war 
beast maneuvered around Betsy. As though they were a single giant entity, 
they went after her, deceptively slow and measured.
In wild desperation, Percy rummaged over the side of the cart, 
grabbing for anything she could think might serve as a weapon. Her hands 
fell upon a large cast-iron saucepan—another blessed gift from Ronna—
and she took it by the handle.
In that instant, the black knight was upon her, and his giant gauntlets 
were clasping her shoulders and waist, lifting her as though she were a 
feather; and she felt herself tossed up to the front of his saddle.
And then, before she even knew what she was doing, Percy reacted. 
She swung the saucepan in a wild arc, barely missing her own head, and 
crashed it with all her strength against the black knight’s helmet—inches 
away from her face.
Holy Mother of God, but what did just happen?
The ice wind whistled, and there came a pause—as the knight went 
still suddenly, and in his embrace she could feel his body losing its iron 
cast, its solidity and resistance, and all his strength dissolved around her—
in one impossible instant of awareness.
And then the black knight fell.
And she, still in his embrace, fell also, somehow still trapped by his 
weakened hold. . . . They crashed from the saddle onto the snow, he 
landing on the ground first, and she fortunately landing on top of him, 
instead of being crushed by what looked to be an anvil of black iron 
plate. . . .
Holy Mother of God.
Percy lay where she had fallen, still holding on to the skillet. She was 
stunned, but only for the duration of one breath, and then, disentangling 
herself from his cold metal arms, she crawled. The black warhorse had 
screamed then shied away, and was now prancing ten feet from Betsy, 
who continued standing calmly through the entirety of this incident.
The black knight lay on his back in the snow.
Panting hard, vapor curling from her lips, Percy stood up, ignoring a 
painful bruise on her knee, adjusting her fallen shawl, shaking snow 
powder from her dark tangled hair, all the while watching  his  great 
motionless shape, the limp gauntlets. . . .
She then dropped the saucepan and put her hands to her mouth.
“Did you kill him?”
An amazed whisper sounded behind her. And there was Gloria, 
followed by Niosta and Marie, covered in white powder and emerging 
from a snowdrift thicket.
“Percy! Holy Lord! Is he . . . dead? You killed the black knight! 
How? What did you do?”
“I don’t—I don’t know!” she was saying. And then, again reality hit 
hard.
“He is not dead, remember!” she exclaimed. “Remember? No one is 
dead!”
“So then—”
“He’s out cold, is what he is!” Percy picked up the heavy iron skillet 
and pointed at him with it. “I used this, got him on the head, somehow. So 
now he is going to wake up eventually, and ‘kill’ us!”
“Oh no . . .” Marie whimpered.
“But before he does,” Percy continued, “we’re going to make sure he 
cannot hurt us or do anything to us.”
She approached the knight again, crouched beside him to check for 
signs of animation. “We need to tie him up, and quickly. . . . But first, let’s 
get him into the cart. . . . Help me, everyone!”
But it was easier said than done. The black knight weighed far more 
than an ordinary man, covered head to toe in metal plate as he was.
“Let’s strip him!” Flor emerged from hiding, coming from the other 
side of the path. “And hurry! The other hunters are still out there, and they 
already grabbed Catrine, Regata, and Sybil, and I think I saw them going 
after Lizabette—”
Niosta swore in foul gutter language. “My poor sis!”
But Percy and Gloria were already busy removing whatever portions 
of plate mail they could from the knight.
The first to come off was the helm. Percy raised his visor, bracing 
herself for the sight of a burly monster, and instead saw a pale bloodied 
face of a young man, surprisingly fine in appearance, with regular 
features, sculpted cheekbones and chestnut-brown wavy hair. Removing 
the helm altogether, she ascertained that not too much damage had been 
done by her blow with the saucepan. He had a minor bruise on his 
forehead, and a swollen lump on the right side of his head, above the back 
of the ear. Surely these wounds must have come about earlier, perpetrated 
by someone else. . . .
Altogether, he was still breathing.
As enough other pieces came off, they were able to lift him bodily at 
last, and the five of them together managed to drag him onto the cart, deep 
in the back.
“Get as much of this plate off him as possible,” said Percy, getting 
back into the driver’s seat. “And then tie his hands and feet, leave his 
woolens on, and put a blanket over him. Cover the armor too! Don’t leave 
any of it lying around, just in case his men come looking.”
“What of his fearsome horse? Should we shoo it away?”
Percy snorted. “You think you can? Anyone want to get up close to 
it? No?”
“Not me . . .” grumbled Niosta, using many loops of thick twine to 
bind the fallen knight’s wrists and ankles. “It can run back to hell if it 
wants to.”
At Percy’s careful urging, Betsy started walking forward again, 
directly at the war stallion. And her surprising determination made the 
much larger beast move backward, and then turn and gallop out of their 
way into the thicket, where they heard him neighing in fury and crashing 
through brush for several minutes—as though he were loath to abandon 
his fallen master.
“Lordy, Lord, what are we gonna do with him? I mean, it’s the black 
knight!” whispered Marie, in her teeny little voice with its funny accent, as 
they sat swaying in the cart. She had picked up the phrase “Lordy, Lord” 
from the others, and was now using it at every opportunity.
“Wait—where’s Jenna?” Percy suddenly felt a pang of fear. It was as 
if she’d left her mind back there in the snow . . . how could she have 
forgotten?
But in a few minutes—speaking of the devil—Jenna herself came 
running from up ahead. And she took them further up the path to where 
Vlau, Claere, and Emilie were concealed in a hedge. The two girls were 
lying motionless—one very sick and one very dead, thought Percy—and 
Vlau stared at Percy and the others with amazement.
“How did you manage to escape?” he asked.
Percy only snorted.
But Gloria lifted up the blanket in the back proudly, revealing an 
unconscious young man partially clad in black armor, and thoroughly 
trussed up, and she pointed at Percy, and then at a cast-iron skillet sitting 
on top of an ebony chest plate.
The look on Vlau’s face was priceless.
“Enough foolery, put the two girls back in the cart, and let’s get going 
before the patrol returns—and at which point we may not be so lucky.” 
Percy watched them all settle in. She then took the reins with newfound 
confidence, hid a smile, and said, “Whoa, Betsy.”
For some reason, despite the stunning events and the relentless cold 
and the wind and everything, she felt herself buoyant as a snowflake, light 
as a feather. . . .
She felt herself flying.
Beltain awoke in blue twilight. He inhaled deeply, with a shudder, and the 
freezing evening air entered his lungs.
His face, everything, was numb. Also, for some reason he could not 
move, and he was still in the forest. There were soft female voices all 
around him, lilting, rising in girlish chatter, and the deep natural silence 
was punctuated by the crackling sounds of a nearby fire.
He opened his eyes wide, and there was the golden glow on the 
ground, diffusing the bluish shadows of the tree trunks with warmth, in a 
small diameter of about fifteen feet.
He was lying under a burlap blanket, in the cart—the cart!
Everything came rushing back.
With a visceral jolt of awareness, he struggled to rise, realizing 
immediately that he was bound.
God in Heaven! The last thing he remembered was reaching down for 
that peasant girl to pull her up to his saddle. . . . She had been a strange 
brazen thing, and they had exchanged some pointed words—something 
about chopping off arms and legs and the philosophical impotence of 
Death. . . .
He recalled lifting her up, and then she did something—she hit him!
Beltain felt a cold fury mixed with chagrin, as he realized in those 
brief seconds that, not only had she hit him, but she had knocked him out.
A thickset peasant girl in a woolen shawl had accomplished what no 
tourney knight, no battle opponent had ever managed to do to the 
undefeated champion Lord Beltain Chidair since he was a small boy, 
fencing with wooden swords—
His sword! And for that matter, his horse! And where the hell were 
his men-at-arms?
With a parched groan, he turned his head, seeing a face immediately 
loom over him, while the other girlish voices around the fire quieted 
down.
The girl looking down at him, illuminated by the warm gold glow 
and bluish shadows, was likely no older than sixteen, and had a plain oval 
face, with no particular or distinguishing features—so nondescript indeed, 
that the only way he recognized her was by her woolen shawl, of an 
unmistakable older style, but vintage quality. The shawl was pulled back 
somewhat, revealing a few wisps of dark ash-brown hair over a pale 
forehead.
And then she said, “Good evening, Sir Knight.” And her voice—its 
strange, compelling combination of mockery and command, coupled with 
a semblance of indifference—her voice quickened him and invoked a dull 
rage. . . .
“Where am I?” he managed to croak through his parched lips. “What 
happened? How did you—”
“To be honest, I am not entirely sure what happened,” she said, 
continuing to lean over him, and he watched her reddened nose and her 
frost-chapped lips moving, and the escaping vaporous tendrils of her 
breath. “Now, try not to struggle too much, or the ropes might give you a 
burn eventually. For now, you’re not going anywhere. It seems, you’re 
somewhat beat up, but it’s none of our doing. I venture, the reason you 
passed out was because you were already hurt pretty badly, even before I
—hit you. For which I apologize, but I’m not at all sorry.”
“Have you any idea who I am? Or what you’ve done?” he said.
“Let me get you some tea first, then you can berate me properly.” 
And then she was gone, and he heard the girls whispering, a few stifled 
giggles, and moments later she was back with a mug of hot brew.
She placed her hands underneath his head, and her touch was firm but 
more gentle than he expected, as she lifted him enough to put the mug to 
his lips. Warm tea water hit him like heavenly balm, and he swallowed in 
reflex, gulping at least six times before coming up for air.
Oh, how cold he had been—only now was he able to sense the true 
extent of it. . . . And now, oh, how he ached all over, stewing in a dull 
general agony of many days’ worth of battle bruises, since earlier that 
morning when he had collapsed for a single hour of sleep that his father 
had deigned to allow him, before having to return to his duties. How he 
had slept in that hour like a dead man! And yet the sleep had done him so 
little good, after the wrestling bear-hug with the Imperial knight, an 
embrace that had nearly crushed his ribs, the night before. . . .
“They will come looking for me,” he mused, moving his lips wearily, 
and at the same time imperceptibly tensing the ropes on his feet and his 
wrists, bound together mercifully before him (as opposed to being bound 
behind his back, which would have forced him to lie contorted on his 
side). He tested the bonds and they were too well tied, unfortunately. He 
could do nothing to escape them, not in his present condition.
“I’ve no doubt they will,” the girl said, putting the mug back to his 
lips. And again he drank. And then, things slipped away. . . .
The next moment he remembered coming to again, it was dark. Blue 
early evening had turned to deep indigo night.
The little fire still burned, but the voices had quieted, and there were 
a few soft snores coming from all around him, and in the cart.
Beltain made no sound, did not remember moaning, but again, the 
girl was back, looking into the cart and leaning over him. She must have 
been on lookout duty, or tending the fire while others slept, because she 
was so quick to appear nearby—quick to rise, quick on her feet, like a wild 
forest animal. . . .
They were all Cobweb Brides, he remembered then. This was still the 
forest. . . .
“My men . . .” he said. “I would not have allowed any harm done—to 
you. We simply take you back home with us. My father—his instructions 
are not to allow any of you to pass—”
“And why is that?” she whispered, arranging the cheap burlap blanket 
over him, tucking it around his head and under his chin, fingers grazing 
his jaw where there was a growing dark stubble. “Why not let Cobweb 
Brides pass? Are you as wicked as they say you are, O black knight and 
your black father?”
“His name is Hoarfrost—he is the Duke, Ian Chidair, and they call 
him Duke Hoarfrost—”
“And what do they call you, son of Duke Hoarfrost?”
“Beltain.”
“Bel-tain,” she repeated. “Not at all as frightening as  the black 
knight.” 
“And your name? You are?”
“I am,” said perversely. And then she turned away and left his side.
Beltain closed his eyes and slept.
He awoke again, still in pitch darkness, this time because of snow. 
Silence and cold snowflakes covered his cheeks, and he felt utterly numb, 
as though the whole world itself was trying to bury him in winter. There 
was no wind, but enough powder had come down to put out the tiny fire, 
and sprinkle the blanket.
He should have felt more cold, but instead there was a solid weight of 
a body pressed against him, warm wool on all sides. . . . And he craned his 
neck just barely, enough to realize she was sleeping at his side, wedged in 
a half-seated position between him and the wall of the cart. Her 
voluminous shawl was pulled over them both, and the snow piled 
harmlessly on the outside.
Somewhere on the other side of him, from deep in the cart, someone 
coughed—a phlegmy rasping sound of profound sickness that did not bode 
well.
And for some reason, hearing it, he coughed also.
The girl next to him woke up. He sensed her tensing, shifting her 
weight. Then her dark silhouette rose up somewhat, so she was now in a 
seated position, and the shawl covering momentarily left him—replaced 
by an in-pouring of cold—as she seemed to look out over their campsite, 
in the darkness.
She lay back down eventually, and the shawl was also back in place, 
covering him.
And then a warm hand reached out, and he felt its feather-light touch 
on his forehead, as she swept snow from his brow, then lingered, warming 
his forehead with her palm.
And in that strange warmth, he submerged immediately, into a 
morass of dreams.
Vlau Fiomarre huddled in the snow, at the foot of the cart, in the darkness. 
They had given him what looked to be an empty potato sack to lie on, and 
another rag of a blanket to cover with.
The notion of “warmth” had become a distant thing of the past. He 
was numb, and he hardly cared.
The Infanta lay just above, in the cart. He was aware of her utter 
silence, her non-being—just as he had been aware of her, every waking 
moment, ever since this morning when they had emerged from hiding in 
the snow.
Indeed, knowing where she was had become an obsession.
His entire existence, all the unrelenting hell of it, had been reduced to 
this one focus, one single-minded duty. He had to take her there, they had 
to find Death’s Keep, at which point—at which point he knew not what, 
but it had to be achieved, this one remaining purpose . . . for her sake.
Earlier, when the cart had come upon them, he was oddly relieved, 
because now their world had expanded to include others—he could 
observe her lying there, and walk beside her, knowing that she was in the 
relative safety of a minor crowd, and the reduced functionality of her 
frozen limbs could be preserved a few hours longer. . . . And this safety in 
numbers was also a comfortable illusion that allowed him to pretend she 
was not what he had made her into—since the girls had assumed she was 
merely sick and not dead.
All except one. The one called Percy, who was in charge of the 
group, silently and firmly.
She had known somehow, known what Claere Liguon was without 
knowing who she really was. How did she know?
And then Vlau thought of the most recent moments of terror, when 
the black knight and his men had come upon them. His first instinct had 
been to flare into action—for in a fight he could be deadly lightning—but 
he knew he had no means to fight properly on their behalf now, no 
weapons. And his body had been ravaged by the punishment of the 
Imperial guards, and then the prison, and lately, the relentless hours of 
trudging through the cold. . . .
In such a state of weakness he could not risk her.
Those other poor girls running in all directions, deeper into the forest
—it was probably what had saved them both, as they hid, just off the path, 
after first running forward alongside it, directly through the thick hedge 
growth, for endless insane moments—and all the while he was carrying 
her. . . . What had also saved them was the girls’ obvious footprints left in 
the snow, pointing elsewhere, leading the hunters away.
The two of them, in the hedge, had left fewer traces that could be 
observed among the twisting roots. In addition, Vlau had swept away his 
own footprints, covered the Infanta with snow, packing it tightly around 
her, then covered himself, and tried not breathing, while the forest crashed 
all around them with the violence. . . .
And then, their impossible luck had held, and the black knight was no 
longer a threat. How and why had it come to pass? Was he indeed 
defeated and captured miraculously by that peasant girl? No, it did not 
make any sense, none of it. But then, none of it mattered. . . .
Why was he doing this now? Why follow the dead one? What release 
could be had at Death’s Keep, if any, for either one of them? What new 
illusion?
He had no answers, only an endless burning rage that had no 
quenching. He hated her and himself, and he did not know how to be rid 
of her, how to wipe her from his mind—so he had to stay at her side, 
follow her, and know. . . .
He lay thus, burning in a fever, in the icy cold of the night.
At some point, sleep took him in its soft delirium, and he dreamt of 
snowdrifts rising all about him, and softly falling flakes of pearl 
whiteness, and her pitiful shape swaddled in a cape, and underneath it a 
plain servant’s grey gown covering her fragile limbs. In his dream he lay 
against her cold body, full length, covering her with his own, while the 
snow piled up around them and the silence grew, rich with lavender 
twilight. . . .
And as the cocoon built, they were encased completely, and 
strangely, he could yet breathe, for the snow was now like soft cotton, 
porous and neutral to the touch, and there was now an odd impossible 
disembodied glow about them in the violet dusk, a faerie light. . . . And 
then, he thought, in that odd preternatural silence and illumination, he 
could suddenly hear a rhythmic sound, gentle and delicate, like the 
fluttering of a butterfly. . . . It was her heart!
She was alive, was breathing! She had been brought to life somehow, 
magically restored, and her body was no longer marble, but warming with 
the impossible coursing of blood in her veins, blood that she had regained 
somehow. Warm and pliant she had become, lying pressed against 
him. . . .
And in wonder he reached out, parting her cloak, and then pulling at 
the laces of her gown, to reveal her pale, soft shoulder, and the delicate 
column of her neck, whiter than snow in the strange ethereal luminescence 
around them. She did not struggle, only shifted against him slightly, 
opening her great smoke-colored eyes wide, letting her slim arms fall to 
each side pliantly, letting him untie the laces at her throat, then pull the 
fabric apart, as he searched lower—yes, there, underneath her tiny perfect 
bud of a breast with its rose tip—searched for any signs of the wound he 
had inflicted upon her with the long sharp blade of his familial dagger, 
plunged directly into her heart.
He stared, mesmerized, in an unspeakable effusion of joy and relief, 
and there was nothing there—not a scratch, no traces of the wound, her 
skin unbroken, without a single blemish.
He trembled then. . . . And at last, in the warm intimate lavender 
glow, the last remaining pressure of darkness and agony inside him burst, 
and he wept with exultation, pressing his face against her warm perfect 
skin, wallowing against her breast, his lips melded to her flesh, burning, 
burning, while she put her soft gentle arms around his neck, caressing him, 
whispering his name over and over, like a prayer, a litany. . . .
Vlau.
Percy came awake like a startled bird, in the pre-dawn twilight. Light was 
barely seeping from the east, or rather its precursor was changing the 
nature of the darkness.
The snow had stopped falling at some point in the night. At least an 
inch of it had compounded to line the sides and edges of the cart and the 
bundled bodies of the sleepers so that they all looked like uniform white 
bumps in the morass of a great white sea. . . .
Percy blinked, seeing the campsite entirely still and everyone asleep, 
most of them piled in the cart. Only the peculiar young man called Vlau, 
Claere’s so-called brother, lay in a bundle on the ground.
Next to Percy—she remembered with a sudden jolt of visceral terror
—lay the other young man.
The black knight was lying at her side.
Heaven help them all, this was insane!
She glanced down and saw the shadowed planes of his half-covered 
face in the twilight, the powdering of snow on his cheeks, the closed eyes 
and long dark lashes on which more white powder had accumulated.
Beltain.
He barely breathed, seeming frozen and rather near death himself.
Percy stilled her own breath, watching him so closely, so tensely, for 
any signs of the shadow, for a gathering of soot in the air nearby to 
indicate he was no longer one of the living. . . .
But no, there was no unnatural shadow coagulating around him, and 
thus he was not dead—at least not yet. . . .
She had been focusing so hard on him, on seeing the pending death, 
that it seemed for a moment she had experienced a sudden vertigo instant 
of tunnel vision.
Percy blinked again and again, trying to clear her sight, and looked 
up and away from him, this time seeing with the periphery of her eyes the 
definite shadow next to the nearby silent shape of the girl Claere.
It was unmistakable. Which meant, she was seeing true, and he was 
indeed not in any immediate danger for his life.
And as Percy looked up and down, from him to Claere, as though 
adjusting her eyes, by comparison, to differing levels and degrees of 
“sight” through a pair of imaginary spectacles, her gaze happened to 
glance higher—past their campsite, and beyond the path, toward the 
denser growth of trees and directly north.
And it was then that she saw the shadow keep.
There, in the hazy distance, the translucent shapes of night darkness 
had coalesced into a distinct faraway structure that had the form of a 
fortress or a castle, with shadow turrets and towers, and shadow walls 
rising with sharp fine crenellation into the paling sky . . . then fading into 
it, translucent, like bits of storm cloud.
Death’s Keep loomed over the horizon of forest, and its highest 
central tower pointed due north.
Percy’s breath caught and she forgot everything else. “Oh . . . God,” 
she whispered. “It is here!”
“What is here?” The black knight, Beltain, woke up. His eyes 
glittered liquid in the pre-dawn dusk, as he watched her, from inches 
away.
“Death’s Keep!” whispered Percy loudly, forgetting caution, and 
continuing to stare at the horizon. “I can see it! There, in the distance, it 
stands! It has to be it, and none other!”
“What?” He attempted to rise and look, but failed due to multiple 
reasons (he was tied up; he was as infirm as an old man), managing 
instead to move only his head and neck weakly. However, others were 
waking up around them, and there were a few snorts and soft neighs of the 
newly-wakened horse, as it stomped in place.
“What is it?” Niosta’s worried sleepy voice sounded.
“Look straight north, there, near the line of trees, what do you see?”
“Huh?” said Jenna, waking up, and then sat up in the cart, and craned 
her neck to stare as directed. “Where? I don’t see nuthin’!”
“It’s a great big fortress!” Percy continued, feeling herself shaking 
with emotion she had no words for. “It’s right over there, and there are 
towers, many towers, and battlements—”
But just as she spoke, dawn intensified.
Twilight was fleeing, together with the last shadows of night.
And with it, the shadow structure in the distance faded also.
Even as Percy was looking at it, she saw it dissolve into the rapidly 
paling greyness of the sky of morning. First the edges of the towers went, 
then the walls, as though wiped from the horizon with a stroke of an 
invisible giant hand.
How it could be gone? It made no sense!
And yet, it occurred to Percy, it did make sense. Death’s Keep was 
but another one of his shadows. And all shadows fled with the coming of 
the light.
Percy exhaled the breath she had been holding. “It is gone,” she said. 
“But—I know now where it is—where it will be—and how to look for it.”
“What do you mean?” Gloria came to and was listening in to all of 
this. “What do you mean, Percy? What did you see?”
“I mean, I am almost certain, but if we travel fast enough tonight, by 
evening we shall reach the spot past the trees where I had seen it . . . and 
when the dusk comes, it will appear.”
Chapter 12
It was time to hurry and start the fire, and boil the morning water.
“Cold, cold! So cold!” Jenna sang, as she jumped up and down in 
place to warm her young limbs, after being the first to visit the bushes to 
take care of nature’s business.
The other girls were also gone to their makeshift latrines, but not too 
far from their tiny campsite just off the path.
Percy hurried to take care of her own nature’s call, then returned back 
in haste to see how Emilie was doing. The sick girl was the only one who 
had not moved or reacted to anything this morning, and by an odd 
coincidence she lay next to Claere and her ever-present shadow.
Percy huddled over her and felt her forehead, which was burning up. 
In answer to her touch, Emilie barely moaned.
A sorrowful terrible feeling came to Percy. She could do nothing for 
this poor girl—nothing but offer her plain hot tea and half a roll to eat. 
None of them could do anything. What Emilie really needed was to be 
indoors in a warm bed, and someone who knew medicinal herbs to feed 
her a tonic and watch over her. . . .
At least, as Percy examined her with the special sight, Emilie was not 
yet so far gone, and there was no shadow around her either. . . . But she 
was not out of danger, not at this rate. . . .
“How . . . is she?”
Percy almost started when the dead girl, Claere, spoke up.
Looking at Claere, Percy bit her lip, then gently replied: “Not too 
well, but she still has the fight in her. . . .” And then she added softly, 
“And how are you? Is there anything I can do to help—to ease you?”
Claere, pale and delicate, with her great, beautiful, dark eyes in their 
sunken, smoke-fringed sockets, looked at her serenely. “You can take me 
all the way to Death’s Keep. . . . Please . . . Get me to his doorstep, and I 
will be grateful beyond all things. . . .”
Percy nodded again. “I promise . . . I will do all I can.”
And seeing Vlau watching their exchange with his strange fevered 
intensity, she addressed him also. “Don’t worry, I mean it. And don’t lose 
hope, for your sister or yourself. Whatever happens, our journey may yet 
give us all some kind of respite.”
Saying that, Percy stepped away and went to take care of Betsy who 
was calling attention to herself by various hungry horse noises. Meanwhile 
Flor had started to make a fire for the tea. Niosta and Jenna gathered 
kindling, and then they passed around the few remaining portions of bread 
rolls and leftover common foodstuff.
Throughout their hurried movements, the black knight was observing 
them all from his spot in the cart. And Percy, in turn, watched him with 
discreet sideways glances. Finally he said, “I need to relieve myself. Will 
you untie me at least so that I can take care of it?”
Everyone immediately went silent. Percy, who was rubbing down 
Betsy’s legs and adjusting her blanket, did not answer immediately.
“If I untie you, will you promise upon your honor as knight not to try 
to escape?”
“Upon my honor, I will not.”
He was glaring at her with his steel eyes. Last night his eyes had 
seemed colorless, indistinguishable in the firelight and in the early dawn 
light when she had been up-close to him. But now, she could see the storm 
pallor in the blue.
Percy stopped what she was doing. She wiped her forehead with the 
back of her hand and straightened.
“Then, Sir Knight, you will just have to piss in your woolens.”
And Percy returned to working on Betsy.
Jenna giggled, and Gloria hid her face.
He did not skip a beat. “I could do that,” he said. “But how many of 
you will then have to sit in my piss, here in this cart?”
Jenna and Gloria and Niosta all chortled, this time.
“I will take him and watch him,” Vlau said suddenly. “You can 
loosen his feet, and he will manage—”
“Are you sure?” Percy said, maintaining a very straight face. “Can 
you hold him? He is a fearsome knight. And you are?”
“I am a man who has held a sword before,” the dark-haired brother of 
Claere replied, without a trace of levity.
“Percy, you could lend ’im the saucepan!” Jenna exclaimed.
In the cart, the black knight’s expression was darker than night.
“All right.” Percy nodded to Vlau, and then she approached Beltain 
and started untying his feet. “If you so much as kick me,” she said, leaning 
over him, “I will wad up your mouth, and not only will you have to wet 
yourself and stay that way, but you’ll ride till evening with an old sock in 
your mouth. Understood?”
“Under other circumstances, I would promise you an intricate and 
drawn out death, for all of this,” he replied, craning his neck to within 
inches of her face. “But now I’ll just have to settle for promising to thrash 
you—”
She ignored him entirely. Once his feet had been freed, she and Vlau 
raised him up in an upright position, helping him out of the cart and then 
to stand up.
Beltain took a moment to steady himself and regain the use of his 
nearly atrophied limbs. Grasping the side rail of the cart with both his tied 
hands, he took a few steps in the snow. Even though he was mostly 
undressed down to his undergarments, with only a few pieces of armor 
remaining, he was so tall and formidable that Percy had to raise her chin to 
look up at his face.
She stood back and let him walk on his own. He made it as far as 
behind the nearest shrubbery, with Vlau following closely. Vlau was not a 
short man, but he was dwarfed by the black knight’s stature.
When the two men returned some time later, Flor had the fire going, 
and the tea was ready. Percy sat in the cart with a mug, pouring tea into 
Emilie’s mouth while holding her head up. Emilie swallowed with 
difficulty, and she was very weak with a fever.
“All done? Get him back in here,” said Percy, without looking in the 
knight’s direction.
Beltain had been swaying on his feet, and had sat down on the edge 
of the cart with some difficulty and, no doubt, secret relief. No, he was not 
going anywhere on his own, thought Percy. Gloria and Vlau helped pull 
him deeper inside, and the black knight collapsed, closing his eyes. He 
was unconscious.
“When he wakes, give him some tea,” Percy said to Gloria. She then 
took a small bit of bread for herself and chewed it without tasting, gulping 
it down with hot tea.
In the meantime, Vlau returned to stand at Claere’s side like a strange 
sentinel.
Just as they were done eating their poor breakfast, and it was almost full 
light, Lizabette arrived.
She was staggering through the snow along the path, back from 
where they had come from, haggard like a shade and covered with snow.
It was a miracle she was alive, and not the frozen walking dead. . . .
Jenna noticed her first. “Lizabette! You’re back! You got away from 
the hunters!”
Everyone turned to stare, and Niosta ran up to her, asking about 
Catrine.
“Oh L-l-lord . . .” Lizabette whispered in a rasping voice, “g-g-give 
me s-s-something warm to d-d-drink, please!”
Someone immediately passed her a hot mug, and she drank it down 
wordlessly, hands shaking, standing where she was, and then walked the 
last few paces to the cart and collapsed.
The girls gathered around her. Her hands and face were dangerously 
white and cold to the touch, and she appeared to have some degree of 
frostbite. They started to gently pat down and squeeze her fingers and 
arms, and her feet, trying to get the blood moving. Gloria pulled a blanket 
over her, and Jenna blew warm breath at her face and cheeks, then placed 
her palms to them.
“What happened, Lizabette?” Percy asked when the other girl was 
back to some semblance of normalcy, sitting upright and shivering in the 
blanket.
“I ran, and then they g-g-got me!” she began. “Oh Lord in Heaven, 
there is so m-m-much to tell! I’ve been walking all night!”
“Probably why you’re still alive and not completely frozen . . .” 
Percy said.
“How’d you get away? Where is Catrine?” persisted Niosta.
And Lizabette told them. She told them how, when the patrol had 
arrived, she had run into the forest, but in moments was grabbed by at 
least two men-at-arms. “I don’t know what happened, but when I looked 
back, it was as if I was lost completely . . . there was no trace of the path, 
or the cart, and I could only see Regata in her nice coat on the other side, 
being taken also, and hoisted up by a filthy mounted man, who then rode 
off with her somewhere. . . .”
“Did you see Catrine?”
“No!”   Lizabette   said,   her   usual,   somewhat   snotty   intonation 
returning, which was surely a good sign. “But I did notice one strangest 
thing. . . . As those ruffians dragged me behind them, we doubled back to 
where I had been at first, and when I looked behind me from that place, I 
could suddenly see the path again, and the cart and Betsy, in the distance! 
And you were there, Percy—but you were, all of you, somehow 
transparent! You were fading! You, and the horse, and the cart! And as 
we moved further away from the path, you disappeared altogether—not 
out of sight, like around a tree or something, but it was as if by magic, you 
dissolved into the air!”
“All right, I don’t really understand what you mean, but do go on,” 
Gloria said.
“Afterwards, they continued dragging me some distance, and then 
there were others, equally gruesome and filthy, and they kept running up 
to my captors, or riding by, and they were all supposedly looking for their 
captain—who it turns out, is none other than the terrifying black knight 
himself—”
Jenna and Niosta and Marie exchanged looks.
“—and so then they sighted a great monstrous warhorse running 
loose, that must have been his. But the knight himself was not on it—was 
apparently missing. No one could catch him—I refer to the horse, not the 
knight. . . . And so they stopped and made camp, and there was a great big 
fire, then at least a dozen more of them arrived there, all talking—”
Lizabette paused with a shudder, and asked for more tea.
“What were they talking about?” Jenna asked. “Are they looking for 
us?”
“Yes!” Lizabette drank thirstily from the mug, holding it tight with 
her reddened fingers, for warmth. “They are looking for us, naturally. But 
even more so, they are looking for  someone else. . . .  I could hardly 
believe it, but supposedly, the Emperor’s own daughter, the  Infanta 
herself, is somewhere in this forest—right this very minute!—also on her 
way to become a Cobweb Bride! Can you imagine that? They say she has 
gone mad, or maybe she is dead—but in either case, the Duke Chidair 
himself is on the lookout for her—you know, the one they call Duke 
Hoarfrost—”
As Lizabette chattered, taking momentary breaks to gulp down the 
tea, Percy grew more thoughtful.
“As for me,” Lizabette continued, “I must tell you how I got away, 
because it is very important. . . . Listen—at some point those two cretins 
watching me, had taken a few steps aside—to gab with their superiors, I 
suppose, or whoever else is in those patrols—and I simply started running. 
It was as if some kind of crazy terror came upon me, I just ran, and in 
seconds I had gotten away. . . . I could hear them follow me. But then, all 
of a sudden, there was that path—I recognized one spot on it, early on, 
back where we had just gotten on it. . . . So I turned onto our path, just 
because it was easier to run on it than to crash through godforsaken 
bushes. . . . I knew they were going to be upon me in a heartbeat—”
“Oh, go on!” said Jenna, very attentive.
“Well, I ran for about twenty feet along the path, and then I looked 
behind me, and I saw them, at least three hunters in pursuit of me. They 
ran this and that way, and they did not see me. I was right there, in front of 
them—I even stopped running, and just stood there, in the middle of the 
path. But it was as if I’d gone invisible! And for that matter, it was as if 
they could not see the path was there, either!”
“So what you’re saying—” Percy began.
“I’m saying there’s something unnatural going on! Magic!”
Everyone stared at her.
“No, I have not gone daft!” exclaimed Lizabette, “I tell you, this path 
we’re on, it’s very special! I wager, it’s all Grial’s doing, somehow! She 
must’ve spelled it for us, to keep us safe, or—”
“I actually believe you,” said Percy. “Because there is no other 
explanation as to why we have been so impossibly lucky all these few 
days. I mean, the forest is full of the patrols, and they’ve been so close—”
“Yes, and they are looking for everyone! And now, oh, I wonder,” 
Lizabette interrupted, “where the Infanta is! Just to think, that the Grand 
Princess, Claere Liguon herself is somewhere, maybe on our path—”
“She’s in the cart!” Jenna said suddenly. “Claere! Oh, Lordy, Lord!”
There was absolute silence. They paused, every face turning to the 
back, where the unobtrusive sick girl had been lying next to Emilie. . . .
“Noooo . . .” said Gloria.
In that moment, the hood covering her face moved, and for the first 
time Claere spoke loudly, in a peculiar mechanical voice, and they all 
heard her.
“I am indeed she. . . . I have left behind all things—including my life, 
and my father’s court—to travel to Death’s Keep. And this man—” her 
pale slim hand pointed at Vlau—“is not my brother, but he is here to 
accompany me.”
Vlau spoke not a word, and appeared as still and intense, and 
somehow as lifeless as ever—or possibly even more so. Only his gaze 
burned.
“What? Your Imperial Highness! Oh, I cannot believe it, a thousand 
pardons if we have offended! Your clothes—your disguise, surely—they 
are so common—that is, begging pardon of Your Imperial Highness—” 
Lizabette was babbling. She immediately sat up, and attempted to bow 
clumsily. Several of the other girls also curtsied awkwardly, and Jenna 
was staring in amazement.
Lizabette continued speaking rapidly, in a high voice, forgetting how 
cold and uncomfortable she had been only moments ago. “Dear Lord in 
Heaven, this is just impossible, an honor beyond imagining! Oh dear, oh 
dear!”
She then put the back of her hand to her mouth, and giggled almost 
hysterically, and shook her head, and held her face in both hands, unable 
to stop talking. “Of all things! Well, imagine that! The blessed Infanta of 
the Realm, here in this cart! All we need now is the black knight to keep 
us—”
“He’s in the cart,” said Percy.
Lizabette stared at her, shook her head in bemusement.
“No, really, he’s in the goddamn cart,” Percy said again. And Marie 
and Gloria simply pointed.
In that moment, Beltain stirred, coming awake underneath the burlap 
blanket. Next to him were a few removed pieces of black armor.
Lizabette glared in his direction, her jaw dropping.
They set out along the path, moving quietly and in haste, while the winter 
sun remained hidden by the heavy morning overcast. Lizabette had 
insisted that as long as they did not abandon the safety of the path, they 
would be practically invisible to any patrols or hunters in the Northern 
Forest.
Huddled for warmth, Lizabette continued to cast stunned glances at 
the two high-ranking occupants of the cart, on either side of her, while 
Percy drove them forward. The walking girls moved carefully near Betsy, 
afraid to step even an inch off the road, so as not to be seen. . . .
“Are you really, really,  really sure we’re safe here?” Jenna kept 
asking.
“As certain as I can be,” Lizabette replied, meanwhile glancing 
discreetly at the Infanta in her threadbare burgundy cloak.
“One thing I cannot understand,” Percy mused out loud, “is why he—
the black knight there—was able to find the path and see me on it. . . .”
She turned around to stare at the young man in question, who semi-
reclined, head resting against a sack of someone’s belongings, and 
watched her drowsily with narrowing eyes. “Why and how did you ever 
manage to notice me and Betsy, Sir Knight?”
“I don’t know. . . .” His answer was barely audible. “Who is Betsy?”
“Our horse!” Jenna exclaimed.
“Our horse indeed! In Heaven’s name, Jenna, how should he know a 
silly thing like that?” Lizabette said, giving the knight a wary and 
ingratiating look.
“He’s been in this cart long enough; he should know our saint names 
by now . . .” muttered Percy.
“I know yours,” he said, all of a sudden. “You are Persephone. Your 
saint was the one who’s been to Hell and back. Or to be exact—an ancient 
pagan goddess who was beloved by the god of the Underworld himself, 
and who was doomed to spend half her lifetime there, and the other half, 
in the mortal world of men—”
“And who do you think was this god of the Underworld?” Percy said.
“Death . . .” came the serene voice of Claere Liguon, the Infanta. At 
the sound of it, Vlau, walking alongside her place, visibly started.
“Death, and none other, indeed,” replied the black knight. “So then, 
Persephone, what does it make you?”
“It makes me the Cobweb Bride.”
“If only it were that easy,” the knight said.
“Oh, but it is that easy.” Percy clenched the reins tighter with her 
mitten-covered hand. “Death either takes me, or he does not. And tonight 
we find out.”
“How?” Lizabette—who had missed the early pre-dawn sighting of 
the shadow structure—was now confused.
“I have seen this place where we are going,” explained Percy. 
“Death’s Keep shows itself only during the in-between times of twilight—
dawn or dusk.”
“You . . . are not the Cobweb Bride,” the Infanta said. “I am. For, as 
you know, I am dead. And thus, I am his already.” 
“She’s dead . . . ?” Marie whispered. And the other girls stared in 
horror. Those riding in the cart, moved away from the Grand Princess . . . 
then, realizing that they were instead drawing closer to the black knight, 
decided to stay in place, and froze like trapped deer.
“How? How can she be dead?” Gloria babbled. “She is talking!”
“My father is dead also, and yet he talks and rides and commands,” 
Beltain said softly. And then he added: “And he, the Duke Chidair, is 
apparently hunting for Your Imperial Highness. I must therefore deliver 
you to him.”
“No! The evil Duke Hoarfrost cannot have her!” Jenna said. “She is 
the Snow Maiden, and Vlau is Jack Frost, and—”
“What are you raving about, Jenna?” Gloria, still shaken up, was now 
trying to keep the cold wind away by adjusting her wool scarf over half 
her face.
“No one is letting Hoarfrost have any of us.” Percy said firmly, 
blinking and facing straight ahead, into the wind. “Sir Knight, even if you 
were not incapacitated, and you somehow could take us now by force—if 
you had any honor, you would now concede that the right thing to do is to 
allow us to complete our journey.”
“And why is that, Percy?” his baritone sounded from behind her.
“Because the world must be set aright.”
There was a moment of silence.
“That may be so,” said Beltain. “But I still serve my father. And as 
such, I must obey his orders.” 
“Even if the orders are wicked, and will result in bitter evil for so 
many? Nay, for all of us?”
“I obey my father!”
“You obey his shadow! Your real father is gone. And he cannot 
command you ever again.” Percy knew she spoke mercilessly, and yet 
somehow it felt good to wound him thus, in such a small way. . . . It was 
petty of her, yes; and furthermore, she regretted it immediately. But still, 
say it she must. . . .
“Oh, but the rules have changed.” The black knight’s manner 
remained impervious and hard as steel. “The dead and the living are now 
in an equal position here in the mortal plane. I cannot be sure if it is my 
father or not. And thus, in a true agnostic position, until proven otherwise, 
I choose to obey.”
“Lord Beltain Chidair . . . you are a philosopher,” Claere Liguon 
mused.
“I am a man who would perform his duty.”
“And is your greater duty to your Lord father, or to your Emperor? 
Who is your true liege?” continued the Infanta.
Moments passed, and he did not reply.
“For a long time, the answer was easy: ‘they are one and the same.’” 
The black knight spoke softly, as though recounting an old story to 
himself. “My father was my liege lord, and he served the Royal House of 
Lethe, and they in turn bowed to the Silver Court and hence your 
illustrious father, the Emperor. Thus, my ultimate liege lord was the 
Liguon Emperor. But now—”
“But now, what?” the Infanta said, and her voice had taken on a 
commanding strength, as she drew more air into the cold bellows of her 
lungs for each utterance. “What is different now, in your allegiance? 
Think, Lord Beltain! There is but one broken link in this chain of ancient 
vassalage, and it is not you, but your father. He has apparently betrayed 
his loyalties to the Imperial line, and if you follow him in the downfall, 
you suffer the dishonor also. So tell me again, and think well on what you 
say—who is your true liege?”
“I don’t yet know . . .” replied the black knight.
“I do . . .” said the man they knew only as Vlau.
Claere grew still, and did not make any effort to turn in his direction. 
But she was listening intently.
“What can you, of all men, have to say on this matter, Marquis Vlau 
Fiomarre?”
“Wait . . . he’s a marquis . . . ?” Lizabette whispered, while Gloria 
and Flor and Niosta and Marie and Jenna just stared at each other with 
rounded eyes, and remained very, very still.
“For myself, I can have nothing,” replied Vlau Fiomarre, as he strode 
relentlessly alongside the cart. “But for him, there is now one true 
solution. The Liguon he may choose to serve now would not be the father, 
but the daughter. Thus, in his own father’s eyes, he may be differently 
forsworn.”
The cart rolled along in absolute silence.
“Furthermore,” continued Fiomarre after a few heartbeats, “If I were 
in Lord Beltain’s place, I know what decision I would take. I would 
choose to serve this Liguon.”
And then the Marquis did not speak again.
“Why? Why are we not dead?” Flor was wondering out loud, a few hours 
after, while noon had passed, and the relentless cold stood all around them 
in the forest. “I mean, we should all be dead by now, our fingers and toes 
and noses falling off, in this freezing outdoors, with only tea to keep our 
insides warm!”
“Maybe we are dead,” Niosta said sullenly, through the thick scarf 
over her nose.
“You are not dead,” said Percy. “Trust me on this.”
“What I think,” Lizabette said, “is that it’s all this magical path’s 
doing. And the cart too—it is no doubt enchanted to keep us safe. In fact, I 
am absolutely certain of it.”
“Maybe you’re right.” Flor shivered, with her nose in her red shawl. 
“Because nothing else makes sense!”
“Remember, the whole  world  does not make sense,” Percy said 
softly. “And neither does this whole Cobweb Bride business. And yet, it is 
the only thing we can do—to try and do something, the best we can, with 
what we know.”
“But we don’t know anything,” said Jenna, walking behind the cart 
and swatting the back rail occasionally with a dry twig she had picked up 
somewhere.
“We know where we’re going.”
“Only you do, Percy!”
“And how exactly is it that she knows?” Lizabette said. “Who died 
and made her all-knowing queen?” And then she hushed, realizing the 
irony of her words.
“Yeah, no one died, and that’s the problem, Lizabette,” said Gloria.
And then for a few hours more they all were mostly silent, while the 
path meandered deeper into the forest, and the wind gusts tore at them.
There were a few times when the sound of patrols out on a hunt came 
in the distance, and the black knight became alert. But no one approached 
even close enough to call out.
Percy turned around to look at him, saying, “I beg you not to try and 
make any noise, Sir Knight, or you shall be gagged. . . .”
At which he merely looked at her, unblinking, with his steel-colored 
eyes.
In the late afternoon they stopped for a short break, and huddled 
around a very small fire, passing around the two clay mugs with hot tea. 
There were no more bread rolls left, and hunger was now a dull gnawing 
beast in their insides.
Emilie’s condition remained mostly unchanged, as she lay under a 
blanket in the cart, breathing laboriously, wedged somewhere between the 
Infanta and the black knight.
As evening approached, Percy stared closely at all the landmarks, 
trying to recall the exact location of the fortress made of shadows. There 
was a clearing up ahead, at the foot of some hills covered with a mixture 
of bare trees and evergreens.
“I am almost sure this is the right place,” said Percy, as Betsy pulled 
the cart up, and stopped with a snort, because now the path before them 
seemed to have dissolved into the ground cover of show.
“So what do we do now?” a few of the girls asked.
“We wait for twilight.”
And wait they did. Percy rubbed down the horse, and fed it some 
grain, while they made another fire, at the edge of the clearing, watching 
the rolling snow hillocks and the border of trees. Everyone took turns to 
deal with nature’s business around the edges of the shrubbery lining the 
path behind them. And then they returned for the boiling tea.
Just before dusk came, there was a precursor of it in the air, a 
sensation of repose, a solemnity, as the sky went from pale grey to slate, 
and then to a flowering of darkness.
The pale vista of snow and spare clumps of brush before them began 
to transform.
First, there was a thickening of the air. The shadows seemed to rush 
toward it, plucked from the fabric of the sky and the forest like wisps of 
smoke.
The   ice   mirage   rippled,   and   the   walls   took   shape,   growing 
heavenward before them, swept upright like grand sentinels to blend with 
the sky.
And in a few heartbeats, the walls were solid, obscuring the forest 
behind them.
Tangible, massive slabs of granite formed the structure of the Keep. It 
rose hundreds of feet up, with distant towers and battlements, as grand as 
the Imperial Palace of the Emperor himself.
“Lordy, Lord!” Marie and Jenna and a few of the other girls 
exclaimed, the ones who had never seen a large city structure before. . . .
And then, as true twilight came down, turning the world deep blue, 
there appeared a shape of a grand gate in the walls, like a maw of pure 
darkness.
Percy watched it all, and not until that last instant did it sink in—this 
was it.
Time to face Death.
She took a few shallow breaths, forgetting the outer cold and the 
frigid air, because of the block of ice that was now formed in her gut.
Fear is a cold bastard. The only way to overcome it is to act—to take 
the first step and just move forward.
And the only way to overcome cold was to burn.
Percy thought of things that were warm, hot, scalding—hearth fires, 
piles of blankets, boiling water, the sun in midsummer. But the cold inside 
her was insidious permafrost, and she was still trembling. . . .
And then she thought of things that would turn her to fire—injustice, 
her Gran lying on her deathbed back home, taking each agonizing last 
breath unto eternity, her mother’s weary accusing, judging, condemning 
eyes, and her father’s gentle pity. And she thought of her two sisters, of all 
of them, running out of bread at last and contorting in hunger, and she 
thought of the animals being slaughtered and not dying—
And Percy burned.
There was no cold frigid enough now to keep her afraid and hesitant.
“I am going in,” she said simply, while everyone else around her 
paused in indecision, seeing the dark wonder take shape before their eyes.
“We are all going in . . .” said the Infanta. And with the help of Vlau 
Fiomarre, she got up from her place in the cart, and she took a few steps in 
the virgin snow, like a clockwork doll.
With a grunt of pain, the black knight was up on his feet also, without 
anyone’s help, and with his hands still tied.
Percy threw him a glance of momentary concern, but he shook his 
head at her, and said, “I am coming with you.”
“Those of us who go inside may all be dead shortly.”
He smirked, and for the first time Percy saw his face in a halfway 
smile. “I highly doubt I am a Cobweb Bride,” he retorted. “And as for 
dying shortly or lately—we will all meet that fate eventually, if the world 
is set aright.”
Percy took a few steps toward him, and she reached for the rope on 
his wrists. “I trust you then, Sir Knight.” And his bonds were cut with a 
single flick of her small sharp knife.
Percy walked then, before all of them, her feet crunching in the snow, 
to approach the dark looming gate of Death’s Keep.
But behind her she heard the frightened young voice that tore at her 
heart. . . .
“Percy . . . Percy!” Jenna started to sniffle. “I am afraid, Percy! Oh, I 
don’t want to go in there!”
“Then don’t, child,” said Flor kindly. “You know you can just stay 
out here and watch Emilie and Betsy? No one says you have to go in 
there! Stay. . . .”
But for the first time in days, it seemed, Emilie spoke up, barely 
breathing, through a fit of coughing. “I am . . . coming too . . . please—” 
Her voice sounded feeble from the cart.
And then Jenna wept outright. “But I’m afraid to stay out here 
alone!”
Percy turned and then came back around and took her hand. “You’re 
not alone. Come, Jen, we’ll go in together, all of us, even Emilie, even 
great knights and ladies!”
And holding the small mitten-wrapped hand in her own broad one, 
Percy and Jenna walked forward into the darkness.
Chapter 13
Up close, the gate of black smoke was not solid, but a curtain of vapor, or 
fine mist. Perfectly opaque, the mist stood before them like a waking 
dream.
Percy reached out with her fingers and she touched it, and it came 
apart at her touch, with a buttery softness of flannel and cotton, a 
welcoming sensation.
Enter me, the mist seemed to say.
Percy closed her eyes, and still holding Jenna, they plunged forward 
into the mist.
There was a strange peculiar tingle along each point of her skin that 
lasted a heartbeat, and then Percy sensed they were on the other side, and 
she opened her eyes.
Jenna gasped.
They were indoors. Around them, loomed a great hall of perfectly 
dull grey stone. Tall gothic arches and columns punctuated its length unto 
the horizon on both sides, and the niches held fading, dissolving darkness.
There was no visible end to this hall.
If you looked farther out, in search of a wall, the darkness seemed to 
rush in, and created a fadeout at the horizon.
And if you looked up, there was only night, and then, a strange 
illusion of starry sky. Except, this sky was so unreal, that it recalled to 
Percy the sensation of closing one’s eyes and pressing on the eyelids to 
“see stars.”
Meanwhile, the rest of their group passed through the veil of mist and 
appeared one by one in the hall behind them. Since there was no real 
frame of reference, nothing resembling a gate of any sort here, it looked as 
if they were simply materializing out of the air.
“Percy . . .” whispered Jenna. “Oh! Where’s the gate? I don’t see how 
we came in! How do we get back?”
“Hush, Jen . . .” Percy squeezed her hand.
“I don’t think we’re getting back . . .” whispered Flor, looking around 
them in resigned caution.
“One  of us is not getting back,” Lizabette said sharply, while 
shivering in her coat. “For my own part, I certainly hope it is not me, and 
thus expect to be out of this dismal hell at some point, having done my 
part for this whole Cobweb Bride business.”
The knight stood looking around, meanwhile, and there was an 
interesting expression on his face that Percy had not seen before—a kind 
of soft curiosity and wonder.
Vlau Fiomarre was helping the Infanta remain upright, and here in 
this otherworldly indoors, she had thrown back the hood of her burgundy 
cloak, and her soft, ashen, colorless hair came undone and swept around 
her shoulders in delicate wisps.
Gloria and Marie, both helping Emilie stand, were all shivering 
together silently.
“What next?” said one of them.
Percy toed the floor, seeing only ordinary slabs of granite stone 
underneath. Except for the stone floor, the hall was bare otherwise. It was 
also lacking snow or dust, or even air drafts of any kind. There was no 
living movement, only a kind of lukewarm serenity. . . .
“Is anyone cold?” Percy asked. “Because I no longer feel it. It is not 
winter here—wherever here is.”
Several people shrugged negatively.
“Should we start walking?”
“Where to?”
“Anywhere,” said the Infanta. And then she started moving forward.
Percy watched her shadow follow—and Vlau also, her second loyal 
shadow.
They all advanced a few steps, and it seemed the few columns they 
kept their eyes on as markers, moved along with them, so that despite 
“walking,” they had not in fact moved at all.
Percy, who had been instead watching the slabs of granite beneath 
their feet, noticed that the slabs were identical, down to the imperfections 
and cracks in the granite. . . . Every step she took, brought her to the next 
slab in an optical treadmill, without actually moving her anywhere.
“Stop!” said Percy.
And everyone came to a nervous halt.
“We are not moving anywhere,” she observed.
“Indeed, I noticed.” The black knight glanced at her scornfully. “But 
this is curiously refreshing exercise, if you’ve been lying around all day in 
a cart.”
“What this is, is an unholy nightmare,” muttered Lizabette.
“The kind one has after eating too much lard an’ spiced beans—” 
Niosta added, with a nervous giggle.
It occurred to Percy that this hall had not heard the sound of an 
ordinary human giggle in, possibly, an eternity. . . .
“What if one of us walks in one direction, and another walks in the 
opposite?”
“A clever idea, Gloria.” Percy let go of Jenna’s hand and pointed 
Gloria in the other direction, and the two of them started to pace apart.
That seemed to work, and they had moved away from each other by 
at least fifty feet along the hall, at which point Jenna exclaimed, “Oh no, 
you are both fading! Stop! Come back, please!”
Percy looked behind her, and their figures all seemed to be semi-
translucent. But as she and Gloria returned to their original spot, they 
again became fully corporeal from the perspective of the others.
“What do we do now?” 
“Time to end this exercise in futility,” the Infanta said. And then she 
drew in breath and called out in her ringing mechanical voice: “Death! I 
am here, and I am yours if you will have me! Show yourself!”
Her voice echoed, then faded in the silence.
And then, from a great distance of miles—or possibly, years—came a 
reply.
“Come to me . . .” said a masculine, cold, human voice.
And in the next instant, a wind came rushing through the hall.
They followed the sound of the voice, and moved in the wind’s wake, 
seeing funnels of dust rising along the dull slabs of granite . . . dust that 
had not been there an instant before. . . .
And this time, as they walked, their movement was real along the 
length of the hall of dreams, and they could measure progress and see the 
changing of shadows in each niche. . . . Along the lower arches there were 
now low-hanging cobwebs, their strange silvery white lace decorating the 
curves of ancient ashen stone.
The cobwebs grew thicker, like garlands, and the stone itself took on 
a brighter hue. . . . Everywhere, Percy noticed, it was now rich with a new 
pallor, and what had once seemed granite now better resembled bone. . . .
A hall of bones and cobwebs.
There was no longer mistaking it; they were not in a dream place but 
inside a monumental tomb.
Death’s sepulcher was the grandest, most magnificent grave, with 
columns of bone rising to fade into a ceiling of pale white cobwebs, an 
upside-down sea. . . .
“Ugh! There had better not be spiders!” Flor shivered.
“Where do you think cobwebs come from, fool?” hissed Lizabette. 
“Of course there are spiders—probably thousands and thousands of them! 
Probably hiding all over that nasty ceiling, ready to drop on our heads!”
Flor squealed in terror—possibly with more terror than at the 
prospect of meeting Death.
“Hush!” Gloria said. “I hate spiders too, but I kind of don’t think 
there are any here. . . . I think, here the spiders are all long dead. . . .”
“Well then, a small blessing,” Flor said sharply. But she still cringed 
and tried not to look up.
Percy meanwhile, was walking closely near the Infanta, and she 
noticed how her death-shadow seemed to solidify with each step, while the 
hall gradually transformed all around them into what it was now, a 
graveyard of cobwebs and bones.
Up ahead, the general whiteness seemed to congeal, and it was now 
taking on a particular physical shape.
Between two grand columns of bone, twice as thick as the rest, 
upraised on a dais, stood a pale grandiose throne.
It was ivory; softly matte and exquisite, carved with intricate designs. 
And it bore two sharp spires rising from the high back, while the seat was 
smooth and flat, unadorned with any carving.
“Lordy, Lord!” whispered Marie, clutching her trembling hands 
together. “What manner of enormous giant king must sit here. . . .”
They approached, and now they could see cobwebs spun all about the 
skeletal throne like fine lace, with strings of infinite symmetry, casting 
concentric garlands between the spires of the back, and then rising up into 
the ceiling. . . .
The throne was empty.
They stopped before it, just when the cobwebs had become too thick, 
and to approach any closer would have meant touching them, sweeping 
apart their dream lace. . . .
“Where are you, O Death?” Claere Liguon said.
Percy watched her shadow.
And then, she blinked, and glanced at the throne, and it was now 
occupied.
Or had it always been thus? Was it merely a matter of clearing one’s 
eyes to see Death on his Throne?
Death was a man in black, clad in a doublet and hose, with a starched 
wide collar of lace. He reposed on the throne, leaning to one side in a 
weary manner, one petrified arm lying on the armrest of curving bone, the 
other propped underneath a gaunt bearded chin trimmed in the pointed 
manner of a grim Spaniard. His black hair was short-trimmed, and over 
the left shoulder, pinned with a dull brooch of faded silver, poured a black 
ermine cape.
Death’s face was indescribable.
It was simply not there—a blank spot, a shadow within shadows. . . .
Percy stared at him, stunned, a cold sensation returning to fill her gut 
with an endless dark weight of visceral fear.
“Where are you, O Death?” repeated the Infanta.
And it was then that Percy realized that no one else but herself could 
see him.
“He is here . . .” she said, softly.
Everyone looked at her. Even Death on his throne, seemed to move a 
finger—or maybe a single inhuman breath moved the hairs of his beard.
“What do you mean?” Flor and Gloria were staring at her.
“What do you see?” the Infanta asked, turning to Percy.
“I see him,” Percy said, taking a few steps and drawing nearer the 
throne. “He sits there. . . .”
“Oh! Is he . . . a grinning skull?” Flor asked.
“No, a man.”
“And why is it that you can see him and none of us can?”
“That, I do not know.”
“It does not matter,” the Infanta said, turning upon her the gaze of her 
great, smoke-shadowed, desperate eyes. “Ask him, on our behalf. Speak 
to him! Please!”
“I am certain he can hear us just fine,” Percy said softly. “If Your 
Imperial Highness would speak, and if he would answer, I will relay his 
words. . . . So far, however, he is silent.”
“Ask him,” said the black knight suddenly, “if a dead man has the 
right to command the living.”
In that moment, Death’s hand, white and gaunt like ivory, moved on 
the armrest. And with one finger he beckoned Percy to him.
Oh dear God in Heaven, no. . . .
Percy took one step forward, and now she was faced with breaching 
the web barrier, thin threads of silver, spun in delicate garlands, cast 
before her like fine cobweb rain. . . .
She moved a breath forward, and they, the infinite cobwebs, were 
upon her, as she felt their stifling deathly silk upon her face. Every hair 
along her skin stood up in strange soft revulsion, a serene wordless horror.
With an involuntary shudder, she stepped yet again, feeling them 
brush against her skin and hair and lips. . . .
And again. . . .
And then she was moving them apart with her fingers, and she was 
before the dais of the throne.
Death sat before her.
Even this close, his face was still a hollow shadow, while the other 
details of his human shape were visible with intricate clarity. She could 
see the fancy stitches of the black velvet fabric of his doublet, the 
exquisite pattern of the collar lace, the lines of his hands, and the polished 
sharp claws of his fingernails.
“Take my hand,” Death said.
And she reached forward and touched her hand to the ivory shape 
with finger claws. . . .
In the moment of contact, she felt a cessation of breath, and a bolt of 
darkness suppressed her vision.
And then everything returned, and she could see and hear, and 
breathe.
And she still held Death’s cool hand. Rather, it was perfectly neutral 
against her palm, neither cold nor warm, so that it seemed to exist in a 
shadow-place that had no concept of temperature.
There were several gasps behind her.
They could all see him now.
She was holding Death’s hand, and thus, they could see him.
“Your Cobweb Bride is before you,” said the Infanta, Claere Liguon. 
“Surely, she is present—if not myself, than one of the others.”
“Come! Approach! You are the first to have come through my Gate 
and into my Hall, and I will see you,” Death said, and this time his voice 
was audible to all, to match his physical aspect. With a flick of the wrist, 
he released Percy from her hold of him.
And still they could see him.
“Come!”
The voice broke the somnolence of the hall with a jolt of dark fire. It 
seemed to run along their nerve endings and cut them with a dull ache that 
was at the same time infinitely sharp, as though an ice blade had scraped 
along their skin and left behind a razor burn of winter. . . .
The girls, compelled in every manner possible, moved forward, some 
holding each other, and others stepping forth alone.
They walked through the thick curtains of cobweb silk, and they 
stepped up to the dais of Death’s throne.
“I am here . . .” each one whispered, “take me.”
. . . here. . . . here . . . me . . . take me . . . I . . . here . . . am . . . me . . . 
take me . . . I am . . . here . . .
Their voices blended in the strangest dream sequence.
. . . take . . . me . . . here . . . here . . . here . . . I . . . I . . . I . . . am . . . 
am . . . am . . .
Percy watched and listened in amazement. She was not speaking, she 
felt no need to answer, but everyone else in the hall was responding, 
mesmerized and softened in a strange apathy of receptiveness.
Even the men had stepped forward. Beltain and Vlau were glassy-
eyed, as they stood before Death, whispering silken words. . . .
The Infanta—a statue of dun stone, a column, a pillar of salt—stood 
before Death, her eyes closed, her hands opened at her sides, softly 
reaching out, offering herself. The personal death-shadow at her side 
appeared ready to spring, poised just on the brink of an ultimate 
resolution.
Dissolution of will. . . .
And Death was watching them all, observing closely, attending to 
each word of intimacy, each unique offering of the self.
It seemed to Percy that an eternity had passed. She was a silent, fully-
conscious witness to a nightmare dreamscape where there were only 
suspended beings and snaking  words, words, words, coming forth to 
slither into ragged smoke and shadows.
She wanted to cry out their names, to reach out and start shaking each 
and every one present. But what held her back was a sense of obligation, 
of something still unresolved.
Because it occurred to her that in this hollow, colorless, shadowed 
manner, Death was making his choice.
And then the suspended shadow-state came to an ending, as suddenly 
as it has begun. Death’s voice broke the creeping, overflowing, humming 
non-silence.
“No. . . . She is not here!”
Everyone came awake, some blinking, others shuddering.
The   black   knight   glanced   around   him,   and   Vlau   Fiomarre 
immediately approached the Infanta, reaching out with one hand in reflex 
to support her upright.
“Mourn . . .” Death said. “None of you are the one I seek. There is no 
Cobweb Bride in my Hall. Not even you—” and he pointed to Claere, the 
dead maiden among them—“nor you—” and he pointed to the very sick 
Emilie, who truly appeared to be near the brink, between life and death
—“nor you—” and he pointed to Percy.
They stood in stunned dullness before this pronouncement.
Heartbeats passed.
Death settled deeper on his throne. And then, like smoke dispersing, 
he resumed his previous state of non-being. Before their eyes, he stilled, 
froze, congealed, petrified, solidified, slowing down in every physical way 
like a wound-down clock, and—if such a thing were possible—becoming 
even more motionless.
And he started to fade.
“Wait! Wait, O lord of nothing!” the Infanta cried out. “Do not leave 
us to this unresolved existence! As the daughter of an Emperor, I invoke 
the ancient privilege of kings! Tell us what we must do to serve you! 
Anything! Only do not abandon us to this impossible fate! I am beyond 
fate already, I am yours, yes! But these poor people, they will starve and 
linger in eternal agony! Please, I beg you, take me unto you, for their 
sake!”
“You offer me nothing. . . . I require my Cobweb Bride . . .” Death’s 
voice sounded, from a tunnel of psychic distance.
It was then that the hall of white cobwebs and grey smoke and ivory 
bone seemed to narrow around them with an overbearing sense of 
oppression, a crushing weight of stones settling on their chests.
The grave was settling, shriveling inward upon its bones, and the 
entire illusory world contained within its scope was contracting. . . .
Dissolution of will. . . .
Percy saw the terrified confusion, the utter despair on the faces she 
had grown to know so well these past few days.
And Percy rushed forward and reached for the fading hand of ivory 
with its long polished claws. She felt Death’s touch once more, the shock 
of nothingness and the blackout of all her senses.
This time, she held on, and she faded together with him, passing 
gently into the other place that was even deeper than his grey hall, more 
remote than the deepest grave.
She entered serenity.
Percy held Death tightly, clutching his still hand, the atrophied fingers 
worthy of a skeleton, and yet covered with supple, ethereal skin.
Her eyes were open wide, pupils dilated to the intimate grey pallor 
that was now the whole world, containing her like a mother’s womb. And 
she either stood or floated, dizzy with vertigo caused by the lack of any 
physical frame of reference.
Except for him.
Death was before her, at her side, and he was no longer clad in black 
garments of human mourning.
Instead, he was pure white. His doublet, hose, lace, his hair, skin, all 
was incandescent pallor of sparkling sun upon snow, shining with a 
radiance that yet did not blind.
And this time—here, now, in this impossible, unreal interior of the 
mind—she could at last see his face.
Death was an elegant young man, and his features were exquisite. His 
eyes were smoky and glorious, and he smiled at her with gently curving 
lips worthy of a god of love.
“Oh! But you are neither ancient nor withered!” Percy could not hold 
back. “You are as beautiful as—as—”
He looked at her with a soft expression of bittersweet profundity.
And she recognized at last the nature of his sorrow and his secret.
Death was a Bridegroom.
He was dressed in splendid white, for his Wedding Feast.
 But there was no Bride.
“Yes,” he spoke, perceiving her ultimate moment of comprehension. 
“Now that you have followed me here, inside, you can see why I wear 
dark mourning in my Hall, while here I am revealed in my true eternal 
aspect that cannot change, not even to match the temporal circumstances 
of my grief.”
“Your grief? But why?” Percy asked. “What has happened to you? 
And to her? Where is she, this Cobweb Bride? Who is she?”
“All these things you ask, I do not know, and I cannot remember.”
“But—” Percy’s facial features were fluid in confusion. “How is that 
possible?” 
Death, the exquisite young man, sighed. “If I knew, I would have no 
need to ask the world itself to help me. For that is what I have done.”
“What you have done is stopped life itself! Don’t you know that the 
world cries out for you, plunged into unrelieved agony? While you were 
never properly welcomed, you were a dependable relief for us all, in the 
end, at the proper time for each one of us . . .” whispered Percy. “If you 
arrived too soon, we cursed you. Indeed, we dreamed that you would not 
arrive at all, not ever. . . . But now that our fool dream has come to pass, 
we admit our desperate need of you!” 
“You need me . . .” he echoed.
“Yes! But you have abandoned us, and we don’t know what to do 
with ourselves after we are broken.”
Death sighed, and it seemed that the radiance around him dimmed 
somewhat, in sympathetic sorrow.
“Since the dawn of existence, you mortals have feared dying, feared 
the unknown and the pain of it, and yet, pain is a part of life, not death. 
And I—I am the first moment after pain ceases,” he pronounced. “It is life 
that fights and struggles and rages; life, that tears at you in its last 
agonizing throes to hold on, even if but for one futile instant longer. . . . 
Whereas I, I come softly when it is all done. Pain and death are an ordered 
sequence, not a parallel pair. So easy to confuse the correlations, not 
realizing that one does not bring the other.”
“But we are mortal idiots, and we only care about pain, not 
causality,”  retorted  Percy,   rather  proud  of having  used  the  word 
“causality” in a formal conversation outside of a book (specifically, it had 
been within a tattered volume of sacred hymns, indeed, a monk’s reading 
primer, which together with two other books, she had secretly borrowed 
from her mother’s small trunk of personal treasures—why in Heaven’s 
name was she now thinking of that book? For that matter, why was she 
talking so much? She never talked like that in the real world, only thought 
such things in her mind . . . all these wild and twisted and strange and 
arcane things she would never verbalize).
Death softly smiled, as though he knew the exact course of her 
thoughts—which, surely he did. “Is your mortal pain not a good thing, 
then?” he asked her. “For it means you are alive.”
“Oh, but you misunderstand us! Yes, we welcome the pain that 
comes with living, but we fully expect it to end at some point—and to 
vary in intensity. And, did I mention, to end?”
“Then know this, mortal maiden—I too know pain without end, as a 
result of what has come to pass. I feel pain for not being able to continue 
doing what I do, what must be done. . . . For I am not merely an immortal 
aspect of being, I am its function. And as such, I suffer far worse, for 
being unable to perform my part, than the world can imagine.”
“Then how do we find this Cobweb Bride for you? If she is indeed 
what you require—”
“Again, I do not know—”
“But, if you know nothing, how will you know her? Have you ever 
seen her before? Do you know what she looks like?”
“I will know her.”
“How?” Percy asked again, getting oddly frustrated.
“I will . . . recognize in her a part of myself.”
“Do you mean a physical resemblance? Or, is it a spiritual affinity? 
Maybe a beauty spot? Eye color? The shape of her teeth? Freckles? The 
amount of dusty cobwebs in her hair? Because really, since she is a 
Cobweb Bride—”
“Stop . . .” whispered Death.
And then a strange light came to his wondrous smoke-colored eyes. 
He turned away, looking into the uniform greyness around them, and 
looking somehow beyond. . . . And he uttered, as though remembering, in 
an ancient language that Percy had never heard but somehow understood:
“She  is covered in white . . . white cobwebs of a thousand snow 
spiders . . . she lies in the darkness. . . . Her skin—it is cold as snow. . . . 
Her eyes, frozen in their sockets. . . . Her gaze, it  lives. It is fiercely 
alive. . . .”
Percy heard a distant wind rising, and it lifted each hair along her 
skin. . . .
“What do you see, mortal maiden?” Death asked, his beautiful face 
still turned away. “What do you see when I speak these words? Tell me 
what you see, for I am so close now, so close to knowing!”
Percy shivered. “I am sorry, but, if you insist, I only see a whole lot 
of grey nothing . . . and now, to be honest, I see the back of your head.”
Indeed, looking at his profile, turned more than halfway from her, she 
pronounced this nonsense—because she was abysmally exhausted—and 
because fear had returned, tugging at her, and the only way she knew how 
to counteract fear was to either be ridiculous, or somewhat rude. “What I 
see . . . it is all rather pleasing, indeed, no unsightly skull visible, and I am 
happy to inform you that you do not have a bald spot, unlike my Pa, who 
actually has a small one on the very top—”
She knew she was babbling. After all, she was inside Death’s head, 
the deepest place. None of this was real, and talking about the external 
appearance of that “head” seemed like a very natural thing to do in this 
perfectly insane and ludicrous moment. . . .
“I am sorry,” she finished. “I’m sure this is not quite the thing you 
were asking. But since I am inside you, within a mad dream, I might as 
well amuse myself. Indeed, do you happen to have a mirror? Because then 
I can show you exactly what I see—and if you might perchance want to 
know what your face, or the back of your head looks like—the back of 
Death’s head, hah!—I can oblige—”
And the moment she spoke, the mirror was before them. Full length 
rectangle, silvery perfection of glass, without a frame, and only cast in 
contrast by the grey universe of mist all around them—a dislocated chunk 
of perfectly carved ice, a winter crystal, a northern fjord. . . .
“It is as I had hoped. You have been my mirror so far,” Death said, 
and his words were rather cryptic. “And now, what else do you see?”
“I really am not sure—” Percy protested.
“Help me!” Death whispered. “Look!”
Percy glanced only once, seeing a full-length reflection of herself: 
tired, ordinary, dull, ungainly—the usual unpleasant sight she encountered 
every time she looked inside a tub of water or the little old hand mirror 
that belonged to Gran. . . .
But when she glanced from the corner of her eye, expecting to see the 
reflection of the handsome man in white standing next to her, all she saw 
was . . . cobwebs.
“Hmm, I think you should look now,” she told Death.
But he regarded her sadly, and he confessed another secret.
“Death cannot look at itself,” he said. “When I look in the mirror, I 
see nothing at all—as ever I must. Only others can look at me, and I, in 
turn, can look at the entire world.”
“So, what exactly does this have to do with your Cobweb Bride?” 
Percy felt her mind reeling in another fine layer of confusion.
“You, who can  see  death—in a way that no one else can,” he 
whispered, “you can see me in places that I myself may not look. She, who 
is my Cobweb Bride, bears a part of me, and thus, she has been eternally 
hidden from my searching gaze. A torn piece of my very self rests with her 
and upon her—an ember of me—and it covers her like a cloak of 
invisibility, shielding her from my own sight.”
“That is the most insane thing I have ever heard,” said Percy. “How 
on earth—or in Heaven—does something like that even happen?”
“At the moment of proper death, every mortal whose turn it is to 
come to me, receives a piece of me unto them, and becomes my betrothed. 
It is a favor, a token of our union.”
Percy stared, with a glimmering of comprehension.
And then Death added: “Yes, you understand at last—you are all my 
betrothed at the time of your passing. When you receive my token, you are 
irrevocably marked as mine. And being mine, you come unto me, as 
naturally as rushing water into an empty vessel—indeed, you are then 
made into a liquid fire, flowing smoothly into the receptacle that is myself
—together with that which is already mine. . . .”
“And this is what happens to all who die?”
“Indeed, it is your mortal destiny. Except, it did not happen this one 
time. My Bride received my favor, but did not come to me—does not 
come even now, to this day! And because she has my favor, I can give it to 
none other, and no one else can die in their proper turn.”
“So, a single token, a favor . . .” Percy mused. “Wait! How exactly 
does that work when so many people die at the same moment? Do you 
give out several favors at once, like bunches of daisies? Do you even have 
that many favors? What do they look like? Am I babbling again?”
Death’s lips curved into a smile.
“How does water pour through many holes at once? It is a paradox of 
simultaneous being. My one favor is granted to my one betrothed—an 
infinite number of times over. And yet, even if one drop remains behind—
one drop of my will—and does not return to me, I am diminished. And I 
no longer can dissolve you unto eternity.”
“But water does not diminish in its nature if it loses a few drops! And 
neither does fire cease being fire if it sheds tiny embers!”
“And yet, though I burn, and though I flow, I am neither fire nor 
water. I am Death complete, and none other. And I require the fullness of 
my eternal being in order to perform my function. Once I mark a mortal, 
that mark—and that mortal—must return to me, else I remain suspended 
in my own unrealized purpose.”
Percy rubbed her forehead in a fine example of mortal pain and 
frustration. The long mirror still floated before them, suspended in grey 
nothingness. And she glanced at it again and again, seeing her abysmally 
mundane reflection, and seeing nothing where his masculine shape should 
have been reflected—rather, the silken pallor of the spider webs, 
stretching unto infinity.
“So. . . . All you see when you look for her are cobwebs. . . .”
“No,” he replied. “It is what you see—when you look in the mirror at 
my reflection. I meanwhile see nothing; only my token shadow calls out to 
me from an infinite distance, informing me about cobwebs all around, 
about the whiteness of snow, and her open eyes. . . . And that is all. 
Indeed, I cannot see any of it, I am only told it is thus. But if you observe 
closer, you might be able to see more—not only her, but along with her, 
my token self. Look for it, and tell me where my Cobweb Bride and I are 
hidden!”
Percy exhaled.
She had a dizzy moment of existential vertigo—what in all God’s 
Creation was she, of all people, doing here and now, inside Death’s oh-so-
cavernous cranium, when she could instead be at home back at Oarclaven, 
eating buckwheat porridge by the fire?
. . . by the fire, listening to Gran’s unending death rattle . . .
. . . eating buckwheat porridge, but only tasting ashes . . .
No!
The world was all wrong, and it needed to be set aright.
Percy inhaled.
And she looked back into that blasted mirror, at the sea of white 
cobwebs, swaying. . . .
She blinked and cleared her vision, and she looked for a shadow, any 
familiar shadow, that she knew to recognize as a shadow of death.
Look closer . . . Impossibly, the shadow itself seemed to be calling 
her.
“What do you see?” Death’s eager whisper sounded in her ear. But 
this time she did not take her gaze off the mirror and the cobweb ocean, an 
animate morass, wallowing, moving, like reeds in the wind.
Look closer—through the cobweb filaments of her hair and along 
each strand shine stars. . . .
Percy looked so close that she now saw each silken cobweb strand at 
the finest microscopic level; saw past each one, and beheld an entire forest 
of strands. The cobwebs were now motionless, for as she focused on them, 
examining each one with utter precision of thought, they were held and 
suspended by the touch of her mind, lifted and then swept aside, as she 
advanced deeper into their ocean.
She was looking for Death’s shadow avatar, a token given to his 
betrothed. She could sense it, just out of reach, and she could almost touch 
it.
And then she saw them—she saw the stars.
Tiny distant pinpoints of light, lavender and ruby and gold and 
cerulean and white. . . . So many other colors of the rainbow!
The points of light winked in and out of existence, while the cobwebs 
moved before them, swaying like aerial seaweed. And yet, it was an 
optical illusion, for the stars did not shine along each strand—rather, they 
were plural reflections upon round liquid surfaces. . . .
Liquid surfaces of human eyes.
Her eyes.
They were wide-open, framed by pale frozen eyelids, and they 
remained perfectly motionless, in stasis. A world of despair and agony and 
longing was reflected in them, along with the pinpoint lights and, yes, 
death’s unmistakable lurking shadow. . . .
Where did those reflected lights come from? Percy tried to visualize 
their sources, only inverted, as in a mirror. The pinpoint lights looked to 
be “gathered” in a cluster, or aligned in a geometric pattern. What was this 
pattern?
For it was reflected in the living eyes of the Cobweb Bride.
And this same pattern of light was the only evidence, the one single 
clue, to her clandestine location.
“I see her,” Percy said. “She is looking at . . . strange light. It is 
distant, but there are so many colors! Where could it be?”
“Ah!” Death sighed. “You are so close!”
“What?” Percy said. “All right, you did mention snow spiders earlier. 
Could this ‘starlight’ be the reflection of some truly monstrous spider’s 
eyes? I mean, this great big ugly thing with eight hairy legs, the size of a 
barn, could be watching and guarding her right now, having first covered 
her in horrible sticky cobwebs—ugh!”
“Snow spiders of winter have spun the webs in my hall once. But it 
was all such a long time ago. In your mortal reckoning, many ages 
past . . .” Death remembered. “I have not seen them since they first 
decorated my hall with their lace. It may be that I have taken them all unto 
me. . . .”
“Is it possible you missed just one?” said Percy smartly. “Might it be 
out there now, having grown big and fat, and stolen away your Bride?”
“The world is infinite, and anything is possible,” Death said, his 
handsome face growing again melancholy.
“Since here I am, at present stuck in your head, and making up 
ghastly monstrous spiders,” said Percy, “why not help me truly look for 
her, your Cobweb Bride? But—not in here, where I might conjure even 
more nonsense. Instead, help me out there, in the real world. Out there, I 
have nothing better to do than freeze in that forest, along with the other 
poor girls. And simply going back home would be of no use to anyone. So 
what do you say, Your Majesty, Death?”
“If anyone can find her, mortal maiden, it is you.”
Percy would have hid her smile, if not for the fact that she was 
presently inside Death’s mind where everything was already out in the 
open and on display, including true inner states and involuntary human 
reactions.
And thus, she joyfully smiled at the compliment—one of the few she 
had ever received in all her sixteen years.
And then, just as suddenly, she experienced a shock. . . . Because 
Death, the beautiful young man dressed in white, with radiant smoke-
colored eyes, suddenly took her by the shoulders and kissed her on the 
lips. . . .
The world exploded.
His lips were like a breath of summer. Where they touched her, she 
felt filaments of lightning coursing through her, echoing along each nerve 
ending with dark fire, until she could feel the extent and reach of all the 
shadows in the universe. . . .
They were all extensions of him.
And then he released her, but drew back just a space, remaining so 
very close, their faces barely apart. . . .
Percy was lightheaded. She felt her cheeks burn, and her lips had no 
sensation at all—it was as if they had been branded, and the branding took 
away all living energy, transforming it into an eternal conflagration that 
radiated in an aural nimbus around her, bathing the surface of her skin. . . .
She had never been kissed before.
And now, her mouth had been consumed.
Percy looked up at him, up-close, seeing his perfect lips and sacred 
features, as he too observed her with his haunting eyes. And now there 
was a new gentleness in his gaze that she had not seen before—a shadow 
of infinite kindness.
Do not fear me, but do not long for me. . . .
“My Cobweb Bride has my favor,” Death whispered. “But you—now 
you have a fragment of my heart.”
And as she stared, wondering, he told her: “It is a part of me that I 
have never given before. . . . Use it well.”
“What does that mean?”
But Death smiled, and he drew so near that she could see the smoke 
quartz shadow-pupils of his immortal eyes.
This time there was no kiss, but she drowned, just the same.
Chapter 14
The hall of shadows was dissolving. The whole world was like the surface 
of a deflating bellows, and everything seemed to be  converging—the 
distant columns, the bone arches strung in spider silk, the unseen darkened 
walls, the swaying cobweb ceiling. . . .
When the floor of granite started to soften underfoot, Beltain was 
absolutely sure the grey hall of bones was coming undone around them.
And then he saw the girl named Percy reach out to grab Death’s 
hand. . . . In those moments, Death was fading, becoming translucent, and 
as she touched him, Beltain could have sworn there was a peculiar flash, 
as if dark lightning had struck her fingers. . . .
And then Death, the man, had disappeared, and Percy collapsed in a 
faint at the dais of the empty throne.
Meanwhile, she who had turned out to be the Emperor’s dead 
daughter, the Grand Princess they called “The Infanta,” stood upright like 
a pillar of tragedy, stunned by Death’s rejection. She had been so certain 
she would be chosen as the Cobweb Bride, Beltain realized, that now she 
had lost all remaining purpose. And the courtier at her side, the strangely 
intense marquis, seemed just as confounded by the circumstances.
What had come to pass between those two, Beltain did not even 
venture to guess. He and his ducal father, in their remote Chidair 
territories on the northernmost edges of the Kingdom of Lethe, kept 
themselves habitually and generally uninformed of the latest goings-on at 
the distant southern Silver Court. Thus, any news of the Infanta’s untimely 
“death” and its gruesome details had not even reached them. Even had the 
news been circulated, Duke Ian Chidair and his son cared very little about 
court intrigue and politics. At the Silver Court, the Chidair were 
considered “wild” and “uncouth savages,” good only for “warring and 
jousting,” and their extremely rare appearances had done them little to no 
credit in the eyes of le belle monde. . . .
But none of it mattered in the here and now.
Beltain saw Death disappear and Percy fall in a faint.
The other girls were screaming in terror. And she just lay there, 
motionless, one hand thrust out, and her ash-brown hair tangled up in her 
woolen shawl. From where he stood, Beltain could not even see her face.
“What’s happening, oh dear Lord, what’s happening!” a thin, tall, 
spindly blond girl bewailed. He recalled her name was Flor, or maybe it 
was Niosta.
“Someone, assist her . . .” uttered the Infanta, pointing at the fallen 
girl.
He was not sure why, but he took a step, and then another, feeling 
himself initially reeling from his weakened state. In those excruciating 
moments he was aware of deep soreness down to the bones. He was now 
suffering the full extent of his malady, muscles aching all over his body. 
But the next few steps were easier. . . . And then somehow he had moved 
past the morass of cobwebs near the throne, and he bent down to where 
she lay.
Up close, in the pale, constant, disembodied illumination of the hall, 
she was such a plain thing, with rounded features in an ordinary peasant 
face. Her cheeks were more plump and ruddy than was even remotely 
allowed by courtly beauty standards. Her equally reddened nose was 
somewhat blunt and wide, and her lips chronically chapped from the cold.
For a span of three heartbeats he observed her closed eyelids, thick 
eyelashes, and the well-defined straight dark eyebrows—probably the only 
pleasing aspect of her appearance, giving her forehead and brow line a 
determined intensity.
And the next instant her eyelids fluttered. She opened her eyes with a 
shuddering inhalation of breath, and saw him hovering above her.
He stared down at her, saw the dull indeterminate color of her eyes, 
and also their cool, rational, indeed, hard expression. It immediately jolted 
him into the moment, reminding him of how abrasive she was, and also, 
that the world was coming down around them. Thus, he took hold of her, 
and raised her up with sure ease, even though he was not at his full 
strength.
“Let me go! What is happening? How long was I gone?” she 
muttered.
“Hmmm . . .” he said, while checking the side and back of her 
temples and behind her ears, as he held her up in a seated position, then 
pulled up her woolen shawl back over the soft, listless hair. “Nothing 
seems to be damaged.”
Then he added: “How long have you been gone, you say? Long 
enough for us to see you fall, and for me to walk five paces.”
“Percy! Oh, Percy!” exclaimed Jenna, coming in that moment to 
crouch at her side. “Oh, what did Death do to you when you grabbed 
him?”
“He didn’t do anything, Jen. We had a long talk, looked into a big 
mirror. . . . Oh, and now I know the Meaning of Life—or rather, a few 
insane things about the nature of existence that I didn’t know before,” 
Percy said flippantly, putting one hand down on the floor to prop herself 
up, and attempting to stand, while pushing back against Beltain’s chest 
with the other, without directly looking at him.
But he anticipated her, and had his hand around her back and arms, 
and lifted her to her feet.
“Thank you. . . . I see you are in better health, Sir Knight,” she told 
him with a guarded glance at his large hands. No, she definitely did not 
trust him.
“I appear to be, indeed.” And he released her absently. “Though I am 
still far from my usual, at least now I can stand and walk on my own—
precisely like a healthy three-year-old. The extended rest in the cart did 
me some good, and I owe you thanks for that, at least. The irony is 
intolerable.”
He spoke thus, looking at her, and seeing from the corner of his eyes 
a strange monochrome chaos taking hold around them.
“Why didn’t he choose one of us for a Cobweb Bride? Is he 
punishing us now?” Another nondescript girl, the one called Gloria, spoke 
up, woefully glancing around them, while barely holding up and 
embracing the very ill girl—what was her name, Emilie?
Beltain assumed that by “he” she meant Death.
And as he pondered this, more and more distant lines of perspective 
skewed, and the shadows moved in closer. The throne of bone now 
seemed to be the only structure of solid matter standing in a fluid, rapidly 
dissolving universe.
“What should we do?” some other girl cried.
“Oh Lord, I think I know what is happening!” said the shrill one 
called Lizabette. “This strange hall, this  everything—we are inside 
Death’s Keep, yes? Well, the entirety of Death’s Keep is fading, in the 
same manner as Death himself has just disappeared.”
“Yes. . . . Since this is a place wrought of shadows, it only makes 
sense that it would,” the Infanta spoke.
“Then we need to leave . . .” Vlau Fiomarre said suddenly. He held 
Claere’s elbow, and attempted to pull her after him, in a direction away 
from Death’s throne. “Quickly! We must return back the way we came 
from.”
“Agreed,” said Beltain. “And not a moment too soon. . . .”
But Percy remained standing calmly, and she took the youngster 
Jenna by the hand.
“Yes, Death’s Keep is fading,” she said, “but there is nothing to fear. 
We cannot outrun it, nor should we try. . . . The shadows of death cannot 
take us with them. Indeed, they cannot hold us back or even touch us—
neither the living nor the dead—because the connection between Life and 
Death has been broken. Don’t ask me how I know this—too long to 
explain now. Just believe me that if we merely stand in place, remain here, 
right where we are, it will all soon disappear altogether.”
“But—” Jenna clutched Percy’s hand, and the child was shaking.
The others also had paused, and everyone was looking at Percy, at 
this inexplicable strange girl, giving her the burden of their hope and their 
expectation.
“What if you’re wrong? What if it swallows us along with it?” 
Beltain said.
The world was so close now, silver chaos and cobwebs. . . . And the 
ivory of the throne was turning to translucent smoke. . . .
In that moment Percy looked up at him and met his eyes.
“It’s almost done . . .” she said. And although she spoke to everyone, 
it seemed in that heartbeat that she was speaking directly to him. “Close 
your eyes now. It will be easier thus. Close your eyes, Jen, Marie, all of 
you. . . .”
And compelled strangely by the quiet steadiness of her voice, Beltain 
lowered his eyelids, thus shutting out the shadows rushing at him, shutting 
out the feel of the unearthly wind against his skin, the universal silver. . . .
And the next time he opened his eyes, it was to snow. And then, cold 
blasted his senses.
A wintry scene of indigo night was all around—the familiar clearing 
surrounded by forest—and moonlight painted the world with immortal 
glamour.
Percy helplessly shut her own eyes in that last instant of vertigo, as the 
shadows flooded in, and she was drowning. . . . For a moment she doubted 
her own claim that Death’s Keep would simply fade and return them to 
mortal reality.
But suddenly there was a blast of cold air. And then Betsy’s 
wonderful familiar neigh came from nearby.
They were back in the world!
Percy felt unimaginable relief. She and the others were standing not 
too far from the edge of the clearing, in the pristine snow, with no 
footprints to mark their passage to this spot, and thus no explanation other 
than a supernatural one.
She inhaled the icy cold, and could not help grinning, because they 
were all “safe,” at least for the time being—back in the here and now, and 
no one was dead, or better to say, no one had to die for real, and no one 
was chosen for a Cobweb Bride. . . .
But oh God, no! There was still all that had to be done, so much! She 
had promised Death to find his Cobweb Bride. . . .
The shadows were so prominent now, so tangible. . . . Everything was 
different now, after Death’s kiss. . . .
And then she felt Jenna’s cold little hand still desperately clutching 
her own.
“Oh, thank the Lord!” exclaimed Flor and Gloria, shivering a few feet 
away.
Percy blinked, and she hugged Jenna, saying, “See, Jen, all is well! 
We’re back!”
Behind her, the tall black knight stood regarding her, with an 
unreadable gaze of his shadowed eyes.
“Blessedly, you were right. What now?” he said.
“I don’t know . . . I cannot think!” she replied honestly. “First, we 
must all have fire and hot tea! And Emilie needs to go back in the cart and 
lie down—” 
Percy turned her back on him and left to check on Betsy, while 
Emilie was helped by three girls to gently crawl back into the chilly snow-
sprinkled interior of the cart, and shiver under her usual blanket.
 “We might as well camp for the night right here,” said Flor to Gloria 
and Niosta, pointing them to brush and twigs for kindling. Thank 
goodness for moonlight, else they would have been stumbling along in the 
darkness.
While everyone rushed about, getting the fire going in the same spot 
they had the afternoon before twilight came, the Infanta stood motionless. 
They walked around her with frightened courtesy, and she was a column 
of futility.
Vlau Fiomarre was a similar dejected sight, standing next to her like a 
loyal sentinel. At some point, when others had moved away, she 
whispered, drawing in enough breath so that only he would hear. “Leave 
me.”
The dark haired man glanced at her, and said, “No.”
“Why not? It is all done. I am of no use to anyone, not even Death. 
Leave me!”
But he remained, silent and steady, frozen in his place.
“Why?” she said. “What more despair must I have, to have my 
murderer at my side, always?”
“I cannot . . . leave you.” 
“Oh, Heaven and Hell!” she uttered, then sat down in the snow.
Drawing his poor cloak closer around himself, he sat down beside 
her.
Meanwhile the fire was a healthy small blaze in the pit, tended by 
Flor, who pored over it, sprinkling twigs, and finally allowed Marie and 
Jenna to suspend the snow-packed kettle over it with a thick branch, 
balanced on top of two pails—a newest contraption she came up with to 
keep the kettle hanging just right.
But no one was giggling, and there was little talk.
“What will happen now? What about all that Cobweb Bride 
unfinished business? Should we go home?” someone spoke up, now and 
then, but no one had an answer, and occasionally they all glanced at Percy, 
who did not speak much either, but busied herself with passing around 
mugs.
They had no food left.
“I am hungry . . .” whispered Jenna, but was hushed. And then she 
received a full mug of hot brew to mollify her.
“Drink, child,” said Lizabette.
A few minutes later, Lizabette approached the Infanta, and with an 
awkward curtsey offered a hot mug to the Marquis Fiomarre.
The black knight sat near the fire, wrapped in his borrowed blanket. 
Even in the warm golden light of the flames, his skin seemed ashen white, 
and he looked again near-death. The bruises around his face and forehead 
were more swollen and blue than before, but some appeared to be healing.
Percy handed him a full mug of tea, and he took it wordlessly, and 
drank. She watched the muscles of his exposed throat moving with each 
swallow, and the woolen gambeson, without the external layer of armor, 
covering his wide shoulders.
“When you’re done, get in the cart,” she said curtly, and then moved 
away.
“As my lady wishes . . .” he said with a twinge of mockery, in her 
wake.
They all huddled together for warmth that night, lying in the cart. Even 
Vlau Fiomarre had crawled in, because at this rate he knew he was 
freezing far beyond repair—and yes, he still expected he would need the 
use of his limbs, even if death would not take his frozen mortal flesh. And 
indeed, the Infanta insisted he stay alive, by giving up her own usual spot 
there, saying that she no longer mattered, and even if her body froze to 
rigor, it was not anyone’s concern. She also insisted that her dark 
burgundy wool cloak was given to Emilie for additional warmth.
The dead girl thus sat down on the ground near the wheels of the cart, 
directly in the snow, and closed her eyes. It did not matter if more fresh 
powder came down in the depth of night, she did not even bother to cover 
herself against the elements.
Percy glanced at the eternal shadow sentinel standing in silence next 
to the seated Infanta. And it seemed to her that the shadow had gained in 
strength somehow, was more tangible. . . . Or maybe it was but a trick of 
the darkness.
Some time after midnight, Percy woke up, lying between Gloria and 
Jenna on one side, and the black knight on the other. He had taken the 
same spot in the cart as when he had been tied up and restrained, but this 
time his arms were lying free. And he had moved in closer and placed one 
arm in the groove of her neck and his elbow was pressing at the back of 
her shoulder. It was the touch and the pressure that had woken her. . . .
Percy had the strangest sensation of being strangled by him. One 
move, and his heavy arm would curve inward and crush her windpipe, and 
she felt an instant of panic.
She took in several deep breaths, then put her hand tentatively on his 
arm and slowly pushed it away.
He woke up with a shuddering breath, then pressed himself even 
closer against her, the entire length of her back, and his arm returned, this 
time to lie against her waist. His face was now directly in her neck, 
sinking into her woolen shawl and the few wisps of her hair. Thus, 
breathing against her throat, he slept.
Percy lay for a long time, afraid to move a muscle, with eyes wide 
open to the blue night. But eventually the great expansive warmth of him 
was so comforting that she let go and slept also.
When the light snow fell toward morning, she was so warm otherwise 
that she did not even feel its light touch against her exposed skin.
Dawn came spilling its pallor unto the blue of the forest. And in those 
ephemeral moments between light and darkness, the snow-filled clearing 
engendered massive walls of granite that obscured the forest. Above them, 
like surreal stalks growing toward the light, arose towers and turrets, 
painted in exquisite gradations of dun heather and graphite smoke against 
the lightening sky. . . .
Death’s Keep was back.
The last shadows of the night converged to shape its unearthly mirage 
and overlay its temporary translucence upon the winter world.
But it lasted for a few moments only, growing solid enough to reveal 
the dark gate of perfect onyx black, which again beckoned mortals to 
enter. . . .
They would have slept through it all, except for Jenna turning over 
and pulling her bit of blanket away from Percy, and elbowing her in the 
gut for good measure.
Percy’s eyes flew open, and she sat up, brushing off snow, shivering, 
pushing herself away from Beltain’s warmth on one side, and squirming 
Jenna on the other.
And she glanced at the clearing, where now only a ghost of the keep 
remained, and she saw its last vestiges dissolve into the light of morning.
Before it was all gone, the Infanta’s upright death shadow had turned 
toward it slightly, as if in acknowledgement of its master’s stronghold.
And then the shadow turned back to its grim post at the dead girl’s 
side. But Percy had the sensation that it had looked at  her  also, 
acknowledging her too—but how? She was unsure. . . .
The black knight awoke. Percy felt his gaze upon her, and then he 
was up, his large limbs extending around her, stretching, and she 
involuntarily moved away, and then slipped out of the cart, landing on her 
feet. . . .
“Good morning,” she muttered, to no one in particular, stamping her 
feet to get the blood circulating in her numb toes.
And then Percy saw the frozen, vaguely human shape that had been 
the Infanta, sitting like a sack forgotten in the snow.
The dead girl was covered, overnight, by a thin layer of white powder 
that reposed evenly on her head, cheeks, nose, lashes, brows, sculpting her 
shape into crystalline delicacy, so that here was indeed a life-size doll—
made of candied ice, folded into a seated position, with her hair like spun 
sugar, and her brows like caramel dusted with confectionary powder. . . .
“Oh, Lordy, Lord! The Princess is the Snow Maiden!” Jenna’s loud 
whisper came in awe, from behind Percy’s back.
“Your—Your Majesty—Highness,” Percy whispered, steadfastly 
ignoring Jenna, and crouching down before the Infanta. “Are you—can 
you hear me?”
The frozen sugar doll slowly opened her eyes. The movement of her 
eyelids caused snow powder to rain down from her lashes, and her 
revealed eyes were motionless cabochon jewels.
And then there was a sound of softly crackling ice as her lungs 
inflated, and she parted her bluish lips and spoke, one word at a time 
riding upon the escaping breath.
“Please leave me be. I am dead, and I am useless.”
And the Grand Princess went silent. Only her death shadow regarded 
Percy.
Percy had the strangest desire to grab the shadow by the hand, and 
feel its tangibility, test its solid nature in her own living grasp.
Instead, she refrained and spoke again. “Forgive me for speaking out 
of place, Your Imperial Highness, but you are neither useless nor truly 
dead. For as long as you are here, upon this mortal earth, moving and 
speaking and thinking, I say you have some use left in you. Whatever it 
might be, I don’t know. But you might have to think on it, in order to find 
it.”
“Thank you . . . for your kindness.”
“Nothing particularly kind in pointing out the way things are,” said 
Percy. “I’ve seen how some truths can hurt, worse than being beaten. But 
not this one, Highness. If anything, I know what it’s like to be useless. 
And you’re far from it. You’re the daughter of the Emperor! And your 
will can command and accomplish more things than I, or any of the girls 
here, can even dream of. . . .”
“But none of you are dead. . . .”
“We might as well be! If you recall, Death still does not have his 
Cobweb Bride, and nothing has changed. The world is still broken. When 
all food runs out, we’ll starve, and eventually our bodies too will be like 
yours, and yet we will all remain, neither dead nor alive, with no relief in 
sight for anyone, great or low, unless—”
“Now is a good time for you to tell us what really happened,” the 
black knight interrupted, coming up to stand behind Percy, “last night, 
between you and Death.”
Others in the cart had woken up, and Percy realized that they were all 
listening.
“What happened is, I am going to find her,” she said suddenly, rising 
from her squat, and wiping snow from her knees.
“What?” Beltain said.
But Percy was staring at him hard. And then she looked around at the 
others, Gloria and Marie clambering down from the cart, Vlau and Flor 
and Niosta standing behind her, Emilie squirming under her blanket, 
Lizabette paused in rummaging through their supplies.
“I spent . . . what felt like hours inside Death’s mind,” Percy said. 
“And now I am going to find that Cobweb Bride, whoever and wherever 
she is, because . . . because I can.”
“But how?”
Percy closed her eyes. She took a deep breath and then visualized, in 
her mind’s eye, a very specific shadow. And she reached for it, in all 
directions, with her thoughts.
In a mere span of a few heartbeats, she felt its distant pull. She 
opened her eyes, and then pointed in the direction of the pull. It was as 
simple as taking a breath. . . .
“There,” she said. “It is south, I believe. I feel it calling to me.”
“What is it? What is calling to you?” The black knight observed her 
with a complex expression of doubt and scrutiny and wonder.
“The Cobweb Bride’s true death. It waits, alongside her. They are 
both in one place, but they are separate . . . and an unknown abyss lies 
between them.”
As Percy spoke thus, Jenna was staring at her. And there was, for the 
first time, uncertainty and fear in her childish eyes. Jenna was afraid of 
her.
“Percy? What are you going to do?” whispered Jenna.
“First, we’re all heading back, some of us to Oarlcaven and the rest of 
you onward to your own homes.” Percy replied. “You go home and stay 
there, Jen. And the rest of you girls, too. If someone asks, we tell ’em the 
truth, we’ve been to Death’s Keep, and he did not want any of us. There’s 
no shame in that.”
“But what if they don’t believe us?” Lizabette said.
Percy shrugged. “What can they do? Send us back out? Worry about 
what the neighbors say? Phooey!”
“My Ma is going to be really mad . . .” whispered Flor. “She was 
hoping, if I were to be chosen by Death, our family would get that 
promised gift of the King.”
“Mine too,” said Gloria. “My Pa says, at last he might get some use 
out of me, instead of ‘highfalutin rhymes and foolery.’ And now he’s 
counting the imaginary coins and thinking he’d build on to the barn with 
it, enlarge the smithy, and get a second cow. . . .”
 “That’s just too darn bad,” Percy drew the back of her hand across 
her reddened nose. “But you can blame it all on me, if you like.”
“My parents will be sad too . . .” Marie whispered. “I have three 
sisters, and I am the oldest, and we don’t have much. Father is getting old, 
and no sons to help with the woodworking. They said I—I may not come 
back. . . .”
“Marie, I am sorry. . . .” Percy stared at the tiny dark youngster.
But Marie already shrank away, huddling in her darned coat, staring 
at the ground.
And so Percy returned her attention back to the Infanta, and lowered 
herself again before her. She gently touched the Infanta’s exposed hand—
it felt like a block of marble, cold and unyielding.
“Can you feel this, Highness? Begging pardon, but I am touching 
you.”
“Yes . . . but, it is distant, as if through many layers of clothing, past 
my skin. But oh! And now—now it feels more solid somehow. Indeed, I 
can feel you more than anything else I touch. . . .”
Percy decided to ignore the implication of the dead one’s words.
She can feel me, because I can feel death. . . .
“Then you are alive enough to care about what happens. I suggest 
you go home, Highness, back to your faraway palace and your Emperor 
father, and your mother. I venture they’ll be happy to see you!”
“The Silver Court has no place for me. They know not what to do, 
how to behave around me. My Ladies-in-Attendance cringe and shrink 
away from me. I do not blame them.”
“But you’re the Princess!” Jenna suddenly exclaimed. “You can do 
what you like! You can tell ’em all to pack up and leave, if they don’t like 
you being dead an’ all!”
For a long pause, Claere Liguon did not answer. Gears were turning, 
deep in the clockwork of her mind, choices, despair, all mingling.
And then she spoke: “Maybe. . . . Maybe I will return. To stand again 
before my Father and Mother. To look at them, one last time. . . .”
“A fair choice, Your Imperial Highness,” the black knight said. He 
then bent before her, and offered her his hand. “Allow me to assist you.”
At   his   words,   Marquis   Vlau   Fiomarre   visibly   started.   And 
momentarily it seemed to Percy that he would step forward and dispute the 
knight’s right to serve the Infanta. He was staring so; the fierceness of his 
gaze was palpable. It was unclear what manner of bond there was between 
this courtier and the Grand Princess, but this was clearly a loyalty 
bordering on jealousy. . . .
But the Infanta saw none of it. Turning her head slowly and with 
difficulty to look up at the great towering figure of the knight, she put her 
ice-marble hand into his, in a gesture of courtly trust. And he lifted her 
easily but with great care, so that she straightened by degrees and at last 
stood upright on her stiff legs.
“I thank you, Lord Beltain,” she said with a regained measure of 
grace.
And, amazingly, the knight bowed before her.
“I have seen many things of mystery and wonder, since I have been 
in your presence,” he said, while his quick all-encompassing gaze touched 
upon others present, not merely the Infanta. “And I see there is much 
honor and worth in this Emperor’s daughter. Therefore, it would be a true 
dishonor on my part not to serve her—Your Imperial Highness.”
“And what of your father, the Duke?” Claere Liguon asked.
Beltain’s expression became cold and resolute. “I am hereby 
forsworn,” he stated suddenly. “My father would have it so that Death 
does not resume his function. He would fight for himself, to remain as he 
is, neither dead nor alive, and everything else be damned. And I have at 
last decided that such a course of action is wrong.”
“Will you then swear to serve me?” The Infanta’s smoke-eyed gaze 
upon him was profound.
“Yes.”
“I have no sword to dub thee as mine,” she whispered, recollecting 
herself suddenly, as though remembering protocol and courtly manners. 
“Thus, I will place my hand upon your shoulder, instead of a blade.”
He nodded, and lowered himself, kneeling with some residual 
difficulty from his weakened state.
And Claere Liguon reached out with her thin hand to acknowledge 
him. Placing it on his right shoulder then his left, she dubbed her first 
knight-at-arms.
The water boiled in the kettle, and they had a quick drink of tea, before 
dousing the fire and proceeding back along the path. Percy picked up 
Betsy’s reins and looked back at the girls in the cart and at the empty 
clearing behind them.
They were leaving it, to return south through the forest.
The black knight was walking alongside the cart, on the other side of 
the marquis, and it was the stoic Vlau Fiomarre who now appeared to be 
the one struggling, at times laboring to take each step.
Beltain claimed he was sufficiently hale enough to be included in the 
walking rotation, even though there was more room in the cart now, since 
three of the girls were no longer with them, having been captured by the 
patrols two days ago. Thus, he moved at a steady pace, with his heavy 
leather boots, and his composed face did not register any discomfort or 
pain that he might have been feeling. His heavy black armor plates and 
helm lay in his place in the cart, together with his blue surcoat in Chidair 
colors, and he remained unburdened, using the blanket as a cloak over his 
woolen gambeson.
Percy occasionally glanced back to see if he was shaking from the 
cold, but he remained stubbornly unaffected by the occasional gusts of 
wind. Yes, he was definitely on the mend. . . .
The other patient in their cart, Emilie, was also doing surprisingly 
better. Her fever must have broken overnight, because she was coherent, 
and had drunk the morning tea with a steady hand, despite her running 
nose and sunken cheeks.
On the other hand, by this point in the journey, all their noses were 
running to some extent. Everyone sniffled occasionally, and wiped their 
faces with the backs of their mittens, and tried to breathe through scarves 
and other bits of clothing.
The sky remained steadily overcast, but no new snow fell, all through 
the morning. The path along which they retraced their steps—Betsy’s 
‘magical’ path—took them steadily south, through the Chidair land.
At some point they heard the sounds of distant riders, as the Duke’s 
patrols continued their duties. The forest echoed them, and the tree 
branches cracked occasionally, but no one approached.
“Do not fear. If my men encounter us, I will keep them from taking 
any of you,” said the black knight at some point. “Indeed, I would like the 
chance to talk to them and see if any will come with me, now.”
“You mean, if they would choose to abandon the Duke’s command?” 
Percy asked.
“Yes.”
“And would they do such a thing on your behalf, Lord Beltain?” 
asked the Infanta from the back of the cart, where she sat motionless, with 
neatly folded limbs, next to Emilie.
“I believe,” said Beltain, “a number of them would. The men are all 
loyal to Chidair—that is never under question. But not all of them see my 
father as their proper Lord now; I could see it shaping already. The unity 
in the ranks has been compromised. Instead, there’s uncertainty in their 
eyes, and hesitation, such as when we were told to bring in the innocents, 
the poor girls on their way to be Death’s Cobweb Brides—all of you. The 
divide had grown, so that already the dead ride with the dead and the 
living with the living, on patrol. They separate naturally, without needing 
to be told.”
“The dead ride?” whispered Jenna in horror.
“Some   of   the   dead   are   with   us   now,   Jen,   remember   your 
manners . . .” Percy said gently.
“Yes,” Beltain continued, “the dead fill half the Chidair ranks now. 
During the battle with your Duke Goraque, is when it all happened. . . . 
But, enough.”
“Is that when your father was . . . slain?”
“I said, enough. . . .” The black knight grew silent, withdrawing into 
himself.
Percy looked away from the steel expression in his eyes, and instead 
watched Betsy walking forward in the deep snow.
It was around noon, when the ebony war stallion belonging to the black 
knight thundered onto the path, crashing through the hedge.
He still had his saddle attached, but his blanket was skewed and he 
was covered with two days’ worth of snow, and he was neighing furiously. 
But the great horse had apparently seen or heard—or otherwise sensed his 
master’s approach.
“Jack!” the black knight exclaimed. “Am I glad to see you, boy! 
Come to me, Jack!”
And the stallion immediately approached, quieting, and snorting a 
few times in relief. When he was just a few paces away from Betsy, 
Beltain advanced toward him, and took him by the bridle, capturing him 
easily.
The stallion snorted again, and then reached out to nuzzle his master, 
who patted him down in turn with a previously undemonstrated affection, 
and thoroughly examined him with care.
“Good boy!” said Beltain, brushing off the flanks with his strong bare 
hands, and then checked the feet. At last, he cleared off the white powder 
from the saddle, and then said with much satisfaction, “Ah! My sword is 
intact! You did not lose it, Jack!”
And all the girls stared in curious awe as the knight unbuckled a long 
velvet-trimmed iron scabbard, semi-concealed by the blanket, and partially 
drew a long blade by the wide pommel, checking it for possible damage. 
Satisfied, he re-sheathed the sword.
“And now,” said the knight, “I can ride.”
And he easily raised one booted foot in the stirrup, and mounted 
without assistance. “When next we stop,” he added, “I will don the 
armor.”
It was late afternoon, and the weakling sun shone through the overcast, 
showing itself in spots. They were halfway through the forest, and almost 
out of the Dukedom of Chidair, when a patrol drew close enough to cross 
the path, and thus break whatever enchantment there was that had kept 
them invisible all this time.
“Halt!” cried their leader, a mounted man-at-arms. And then he saw 
the black knight, once more fully armed and helmed, riding ahead of Betsy 
and the cart, and he motioned to his half a dozen men to stand down. 
“Lord Beltain! It is you! By God, what happened? We’d thought you 
fallen somehow, and your horse was—”
“Riquar! It’s good to see your blasted beard!” Beltain’s baritone 
sounded in some relief, Percy noted. “As you can see, I am blessedly 
unharmed. But tell me, how is my father?”
“The Duke is furious, as you can imagine. He’s looking for you, day 
and night. He—pardon me, my Lord, but he raves so frightfully that some 
of us are uncertain as to how to handle him. He’s been riding on patrol 
himself—every patrol—without taking any break, with his—his  other 
men, the ones who are like him . . . the slain. And as for their horses, I 
fear, the beasts cannot take this kind of pressure without rest, they need to 
be changed and fed, and some stable time—”
“I understand. And what of the innocents, the strangers taken?”
“We have our orders,” Riquar said. “But it’s a shame, because we 
bring them in, the sorry things, and then they are locked up in the Keep 
with the others. Rumor has it, they may end up . . . well, in a not too good 
a way, if you understand my meaning, my Lord.”
Beltain watched him with a grave demeanor, seemingly evaluating 
him.
“Riquar, I am glad I have come upon you, of all my father’s men. 
Because of what I am about to tell you now—it is something that you 
might find hard to fathom, or maybe not so hard.”
“What is it, my Lord?”
“I have broken with my father, the Duke Chidair. And I now serve 
the Imperial Line of Liguon directly—Wait! Before you speak or act in a 
manner you might regret, consider this—as you say, my father raves. He 
is no longer the same man he was before his life was taken from him. And 
under God, there is no law that says you, or any of us, must obey the 
questionable orders of a dead man. . . .”
There was a long pause. And then the man-at-arms called Riquar 
nodded. “I am . . . relieved, my Lord. And yes, I still willingly call you 
thus—my Lord—for you are now the one I would serve.”
Riquar turned around, glancing at his men, some mounted, and a few 
on foot. They were milling around in some uncertainty. But it was short 
lived.
“And what of the rest of you? Are any of you still doubtful, or 
unwilling to be forsworn?” the black knight asked them in a loud 
commanding voice. “If so, if you have families in the Keep, or fear 
reprisal, leave now and rejoin my father’s forces. I will not begrudge you 
that. Otherwise, state your allegiance to me, now.”
There was another pause, a few mutterings about “serving insane 
dead men,” and then, one by one, they spoke up. “Aye, I pledge myself to 
you, Lord Beltain Chidair.”
“It is well, then!” the black knight spoke. “I take you as mine. Now, 
these people behind me are under my protection. Treat them fairly, and we 
will escort them out of Chidair lands. And then, any of you who are 
willing, will ride along with me, onward and south.”
The men nodded variously. And then they dispersed on both sides of 
the path, running or riding discreetly to accompany them through the 
forest.
Percy felt strangely comforted by the sight of the knight on his great 
charger, and next to him his new loyal man, riding in the front, conversing 
in soft voices. At some point they glanced back specifically at the small 
hooded form of the Infanta, and then resumed talking in circumspect 
voices. Percy wondered how much truth about the Grand Princess the 
black knight had imparted to his second-in-command, and whether he 
intended to keep her royal presence among them mostly a secret, as far as 
the rest of the men were concerned.
The girls in the cart had grown particularly quiet, and now and then 
they exchanged whispers and wary glances at their new escort on all sides.
“What if the Duke Hoarfrost himself shows up?” Gloria suddenly 
whispered. “Will there be a battle?”
“We can only pray, not!” Lizabette retorted, shuddering.
And then they all remained quiet for a very long time, listening to the 
snow-laden branches crackling in the forest and the occasional birds 
fluttering in the bare trees.
They reached the place where their narrow secret path joined the large 
thoroughfare, just as the world dissolved in blue twilight.
“Do not stop here,” said Riquar. “For I know the Duke will be here at 
some point in the night, with his infernal patrol. Indeed, just a few turns up 
ahead on the big road is where we make ambush, if you recall, my Lord.”
“Yes, I know.” Beltain pointed with his gauntlet-clad hand further 
south. “We go at least another league in the direction of Tussecan, past the 
lake. It should be relatively safe once we are beyond this side of Merlait 
and in Goraque lands. The truce between Goraque and Chidair holds 
steady.”
And thus they drove on, now in full dark, without torches, and with 
the moon barely visible through the overcast. Percy felt her eyelids heavy 
with drowsiness, her throat parched, and she was numb with the unending 
cold, barely feeling Betsy’s reins through her mittens.
Just as she was nodding off completely, and jerking awake every few 
moments, the knight and his men came to a stop ahead. Percy’s heart gave 
a jolt, which woke her enough to pull up Betsy’s reins without going into a 
ditch. The other girls in the cart were mostly sleeping, and there were 
murmurs and yawns.
For once, someone other than Flor started the fire. It was a large 
roaring fire, and not half as neat or carefully hidden as she would have 
made it, but then, they—these men—were also more confident and less 
afraid of every shadow. . . .
The horses were tended to and then the men sat down around the 
flames, and the girls warily joined them, one by one. Then, the kettle was 
brought out, and water set to boiling for tea.
Best of all, Riquar and his men had some food with them.
Oh, the happiness that a few chunks of bread and ripe old cheese 
brought to the girls! All of it was completely edible, for the grain was 
reaped and ground to a flour and the cheese was aged well before Death’s 
cessation.
Percy was so hungry she had forgotten the last time she had eaten at 
all. One of the men-at-arms, a man with an older weathered face and kind 
watery eyes, brought several thick crusty baguettes of bread over to them, 
passing them out generously. Percy looked into his eyes, seeing a flicker 
of the golden flames and indigo night mingling.
“Thank you,” she said to the soldier, while tearing off a large chunk.
Across the fire, she saw the black knight, his helm removed, leaning 
forward to take up a drinking cup, the flames highlighting with gold and 
violet his dark brown hair, slightly curling. His face, with its fine chiseled 
lines, was austere, strong, and his bruises were fading. Without the 
swellings and bruises, she realized, he was more comely than anyone. 
Indeed, he was handsome to an exquisite degree of pain (for it hurt her 
strangely now, to look at him directly for more than a few instants)—and 
less beautiful than only one man she had ever seen—and he had been no 
man at all, but Death.
In that moment, Beltain glanced her way, and she saw the grey-blue 
depth of his gaze, stilling momentarily upon her. It was physically 
tangible—sharp somehow, and intimate.
And then he looked away.
That night, Percy slept alone in the cart with the girls and the 
marquis, guarding his lady, the Infanta.
The black knight slept alongside his men, in a half-seated position, 
with his back to a tree, his head and torso covered with a better blanket 
than the girls could provide.
As the fire gradually burned lower in the night, the shadows around 
them stood thick and undulating, with the forest at their backs, and the 
thoroughfare not too far away.
In the distance, the sound of timber cracking under the weight of 
snow, of wilderness and Duke Hoarfrost’s remote patrols, was an echo of 
living night.
They reached Tussecan the next day, by late mid-morning. The drive was 
uneventful along the major road, with a few travelers and potential 
Cobweb Brides passing them in the opposite direction, heading north 
where they came from, and giving a wide berth to the knight and his men. 
Percy had an urge to tell them all to just turn around and go back home, 
because none of them were Death’s Cobweb Bride.
But she kept quiet, so as not to draw attention to herself or any of her 
fellow travelers. Nether did she want to explain to anyone else how or why 
she knew it.
Tussecan seemed at first to be as usual—dirty sleet-filled streets and 
deep ruts made by cart traffic bisecting all roadways; smoke from many 
chimneys rising up into the overcast sky in stacks of hazy slate.
But the knight and his small convoy, followed by the rolling cart, 
were met with wary stares. And the girls all noticed how few people were 
out on the streets, compared to the last time they were here, just three days 
ago.
And then the difference came to them. There was no pervasive smell 
of food that gave the town its warm welcoming atmosphere—no roasting 
meat, no wafting aroma of fresh baking bread, no pungent mulled 
cinnamon, cloves, and apple cider. . . .
They stopped at Ronna’s Inn, upon everyone’s insistence, and 
because Percy reminded them she was supposed to return the cart and 
Betsy here, as Grial had originally told her.
“What a shame, we’ll have to walk the rest of the way,” whispered 
Flor and Gloria and the other girls.
“Fancy livin’, one does gets used to it!” muttered Emilie through her 
stuffed nose, apparently feeling well enough to comment.
Mrs. Beck, who happened to open the door, exclaimed in amazement 
at the imposing sight of the mounted knight on his great war stallion, and 
the men-at-arms. She immediately sent a maid rushing off to get the 
mistress of the establishment.
“Don’t worry, he’s not going to hurt you!” said Jenna very loudly, so 
that the other girls held back giggles, and a few of the solders looked away 
with grins.
And Mrs. Beck, recollecting herself, replied with dignity. “Well! I 
should certainly hope not! For then, who’ll be cooking for him and his fine 
men?” And she bustled off too, after the maid.
Ronna Liet came out moments later, plump and warm-faced, and she 
curtsied deeply before the knight. “Oh, I do bid you welcome, my Lord!”
“Thank you for the hospitality, but we will not be staying,” he 
replied, with a polite nod.
“Is Grial here?” Percy said. “I’ve brought Betsy back, and here’s the 
cart, all safe and sound.”
“You have!” Ronna smiled, looking at Percy, and seeing all of them. 
“Oh, so good to see you again, girls! None of you’d fallen to the cutpurses 
or villains on the road, or turned out to be Cobweb Brides? Oh, bless you
—don’t tell me any of it, I would much rather not know anything about 
this horrible business. . . . But, I am sorry to say, Grial is not here! She has 
gone back to Letheburg—why, it was on the very same day you all left—
and she told me that, if you would be so kind as to drive the cart and Betsy 
all the way there and hand it to her at home, she’d be ever so grateful!”
“Oh!” said Percy.
“I hope that’s not too much of an inconvenience, dear?”
“Good gracious, no! That’s just—it couldn’t be  better!” Percy 
grinned in wonder, her wool shawl falling back as she rubbed her temples 
enthusiastically with the back of her mitten.
It was exactly then that the sun shone past the clouds. . . . And in the 
sudden brightness everyone was looking at her—at her puffy reddened 
cheeks and nose, the wisps of her ashen hair sticking to her forehead, the 
bright living energy of joy in her eyes. Even the black knight’s silver-blue 
gaze rested on her, she noted with a sudden jolt.
“Lordy, Lord! Does that mean we get to ride in the cart all the way 
home?” Jenna cried suddenly.
“Yes, you goose!” Flor smiled, her thin face lighting up.
Good thing the black knight’s men-at-arms had sufficient coins with 
them. Because not only did they end up stopping for a meal at the inn, 
after all, but Ronna refilled the same large food basket that the girls had 
brought back with them, and then the Chidair soldiers bought additional 
foodstuff and supplies for the ride ahead.
The only thing they had been told was, they were going to be 
traveling considerably far south, and the knight had likely divulged the 
details only to Riquar.
His plan was, as far as Percy could tell, to accompany the Infanta 
back to the Silver Court, and in the meantime the girls could hitch a ride in 
the cart as they drove past their various homes along the way.
Since Percy had decided on her own that she was making the same 
distant journey, it was understood that the men could certainly use the cart 
and her driving as a discreet means of conveyance of the undead Royal in 
their care.
Thus, they set out again shortly, some time past noon, with Percy 
driving Betsy with a much steadier hand now that she had had a chance to 
sit indoors and warm up with a hot meal of fresh baked goods and 
porridge. Everyone else had perked up too, at least somewhat, and Emilie 
had an extra warm blanket around her.
Vlau, the strange, dark haired marquis, now rode in the cart, at the 
Infanta’s side. As they made their way through streets and the outskirts of 
town, he had acquired a habit of blocking anyone’s view of her rather 
pitiful body by leaning frequently between her and any onlookers, as 
though he were a living shield.
“What’s with him?” some of the Chidair men discussed among 
themselves, Percy could hear. But she did not have a chance to hear their 
suppositions, because such talk was hushed.
Soon they were outside of Tussecan, on a far more familiar road west 
toward Oarclaven. The overcast afternoon continued, growing late, and at 
some point small flurries came down, snow sprinkling their cloaks and 
making the horses sneeze, and the wind started up again. The thoroughfare 
wound with austere shrubbery on both sides, past snow-covered fields, 
with bushes in sharp slate-grey and black contrast against snow, and very 
few travelers heading in either direction.
Percy drove steadily, watching the tall riders ahead of her and Betsy, 
watching the black knight’s straight, powerful back, with its somewhat 
stained blue Chidair surcoat over ebony armor. He did not look back even 
once for many miles, although his men periodically moved up to glance 
curiously at the occupants of the cart, the girls with their multicolored 
kerchiefs, hats, and shawls—at which point Vlau Fiomarre would again 
lean in with an intense dark look, blocking their sight of the Infanta.
In another hour, they were entering the familiar village of Oarclaven.
Alann Ayren was lying abed as usual, in his slow apathy, when they heard 
noise outside, and a solid knock on the door.
Niobea barely lifted her drawn face, without moving from her 
kneeling position in the corner, before the holy icon. She had been 
spending most of her days there, between chores, and sleeping. Praying, 
praying, lips moving silently, eyes shut tight, fingers on the rosary. . . .
But no matter how much she prayed, how loudly the sacred words 
flowed and resounded in her mind, she could not escape the death rattle 
sound coming eternally from the narrow bed on the other side of the 
room. . . .
“Patty, get the door.” 
“Who could it be, at this late dinner hour?”
Their youngest daughter, pale and weary, and no longer as fresh-
looking as it seemed she had been only a week ago, rose up from her 
almost invisible place at table, letting go of a bowl with a clumsy sudden 
clatter.
She opened the door, letting in blue afternoon twilight, and a gust of 
bitter cold.
“Percy! Oh My Lord, Percy, you’re back!”
Niobea stopped praying, as though the holy book slammed shut in her 
mind.
Their bed creaked, and Alann was sitting up just as suddenly. . . .
Percy Ayren stood at the door of her father’s house. She had stepped up 
onto the porch and took several deep breaths before knocking.
Behind her on the street, the black knight and his men-at-arms had 
come to a stop. They surrounded the cart, which was now empty of several 
of the girls—Gloria Libbin had been dropped off in front of her father’s 
smithy, and Flor Murel left them at the bakery. Lastly, Jenna Doneil 
crawled out of the cart, and gave a great big hug to Percy, hanging on her 
neck for several long seconds, and sniffling into her shawl, before running 
out to her own home, just a few houses over.
And now here they were, at her home.
Percy knocked, hearing her heart hammering in her temples, hearing 
the soft clanging of metal armor of the men behind her on the street, 
Betsy’s snorts, the sound of neighbors across the road opening shutters to 
stare. And a few moments later, her younger sister Patty opened the door.
“Percy!” she had cried, and then she was pulling her inside, saying 
something, that Percy could barely hear. . . .
Because there was the sound—her grandmother’s death rattle, filling 
the house with its dark rhythmic agony, just as it had, days ago.
Inside it was warm, in contrast with the chill outdoors, and darker 
than usual, with no light but the rust-orange glow of the hearth. Her 
mother was up, and almost staggering upright, with a lost expression on 
her face, a mixture of shock, disbelief. She had been praying, Percy 
realized, seeing her mother in a new light, and experiencing sudden pity. 
How dark it was in their house, all brown and soot-covered filthy wooden 
planks. . . .
And then several heartbeats later, her father was at her side, and he 
took her in a bone-cracking embrace, hugging her and pressing his lips to 
her forehead while muttering her name. “My daughter, Persephone! I 
didn’t think I’d see you ever again, oh my child! My child!”
And then Patty, who had looked out on the porch, was back, saying 
there were all these strange, armed men out there, and horses, and a great 
big knight, no less. . . . Then, Belle came rushing in through the front door, 
behind Patty—she’d been out in the back doing something near the barn—
her beautiful face also thinner and older than Percy remembered it to be.
“Percy! You are back, daughter!” Niobea finally found her tongue. 
She approached her slowly, then put her hands around her shoulders, 
pressing them on both sides, and then drew her fingers along the woolen 
shawl—the precious one she’d given to Percy. She felt its prickling 
texture, running her fingers lightly on the wool, back and forth, then 
adjusting a few wisps of hair on Percy’s forehead.
“Pa . . . Ma . . . I’m back, yes,” Percy spoke breathlessly. “I am so 
glad to see you! And—and I am well, and alive! You know, I’ve been all 
the way to the Northern Forest, and Death refused to take me . . . so here I 
am again.”
“You’re back home. . . . Good!” said Alann. “I am glad that foolery is 
over; it is all no good, just as I thought. You are safe, child!”
Percy listened to the rattle sound of her grandmother’s unending 
breath. “How . . . how is Gran?” she finally managed to say, even though, 
without needing to look or be told, she knew it already.
“The same . . .” Niobea signed with a shudder. “Your grandmother 
remains the same.”
Percy took off her shawl, and shook it out, then handed it gently to 
her mother, handing back the precious heirloom. She then took off her 
soggy dirt-soaked mittens, and put them down on the table.
Next came her coat, which she hung on a peg at the door, in the usual 
place.
Finally, off came her wet snowshoes. Her mother had not yet 
reproached her about bringing in the wet snow on her feet past the 
doorway and leaving melting dirt on the beaten floor, but the lessons stuck 
with Percy. She unwrapped her feet, and took off her under-socks, and put 
her numb feet into her old pair of wooden clogs.
Then she straightened, shook the folds of her skirt with its dirtied 
bottom edges, and smoothed it around her, and patted the top of her dress 
down neatly.
Last of all, she smoothed her hair with her fingers still raw from the 
cold, and wiped her brows with her fingertips.
With a shuddering breath, she took the few steps to cross the room, 
while the sound of the death-rattle was growing louder as she neared it.
And Percy stood by her grandmother’s deathbed.
Bethesia lay, as she had lain so many days ago, breathing with the 
rusty gears of a clockwork mechanism running down and yet never 
ending. . . . Her skin was the color of greyish silver, and the sweat at her 
brow glistened in the red firelight, emphasizing her hollowed cheeks and 
the skeletal structure underneath.
When Percy leaned over her, the old woman opened her film-covered 
eyes and they moved slightly, watching her in impotence.
Help me, the eyes seemed to beg.
And then Bethesia moved the gnarled fingers of one quivering hand 
to point to the shadow, her loyal sentinel in the corner.
Percy glanced, and she saw the rich pocket of darkness, the familiar 
shape of smoke and soot.
She was so jaded now, having seen Death’s shadows in so many 
varied forms. . . . What was this one but another shadow?
Percy put her hand on her Gran’s ice-cold fingers, and she squeezed 
them tight, feeling a twinge of response, the lightest pressure. The old 
woman knew her and responded, and there was a world of love in that tiny 
contact.
“I am so sorry, Gran . . .” she whispered, leaning closer and putting 
her lips on her grandmother’s forehead.
Bethesia’s feathered lips quivered into a smile.
“L-love . . .” the old woman exhaled the word. The eyes were looking 
up at Percy, warm and dark, nothing but filmed over memories of once-
burning youth and grace.
The shadow at the foot of the bed regarded them.
And then Percy reached out, and she put her hand forward, into the 
darkness, into the depth of the shadow, the turbulent spot where it was 
thickest.
And there, she rummaged around in the morass, and she took hold of 
something.
Her other hand still held her grandmother’s.
In one hand was the dying old woman.
In the other hand—her death.
Percy reached deep into herself, reaching inward for a fragment that 
was once given her as a Gift by a glorious white Bridegroom—a fragment 
of his heart. The moment she found it, the triangle of connection was 
complete.
Death, dying, dead.
With one thought, clean and sharp like a blade of smoke and dreams, 
Percy pulled, and drew the three together.
With a hard snap, the shadow-form at the foot of the bed was jerked 
toward her, swallowed like a flapping serpent tail of vapor, and was 
somehow diminished into nothing, drawn in . . . and the old woman on the 
bed suddenly started, her shallow chest rising upward, taking in one 
powerful final rattle-breath, her eyes opening wide, then closing in 
ultimate gratitude.
And then, with that breath, she expired.
Percy stood, sharp and resonant, feeling the opulence of silver and 
steel and fertile darkness in her mind—inside, everything was overflowing 
with rich inner sound, and ringing like bells at Mass, and now there was a 
strange small wound also, a hurting spot in her chest in the vicinity of her 
own heart. She stood thus, tolling on the inside, while holding her dead 
grandmother’s hand.
And outside—outside her mind, in the room—there was, for the first 
time, perfect silence.
The shadow in the corner was gone.
Her father and mother and her two sisters stood frozen, stunned by 
the serenity.
“What—what have you done, child?” Alann exclaimed, coming alive 
at last, rushing to his mother’s side.
But Bethesia was gone.
“What? What has come to pass?” Niobea was speaking, hearing her 
words as they hung in the air, tangible, solid, silver-hued. “Persephone, 
daughter! What have you done?”
“She is at peace now. . . .”
“But how? Percy! What has happened? Who—how is this possible 
now, when no one can die? You killed her!”
And then her mother stared at her, and she made a holy sign of God, 
and she whispered, beginning softly, and then screaming: “You are her, 
aren’t you? You had gone and come back and you are different, because 
you are his Cobweb Bride!”
Percy gently released her Gran’s cold lifeless hand, and she turned to 
look at Niobea directly. For the first time in her life she was meeting her 
mother’s despair-soaked accusing gaze without fear, guilt, or weakness—
or even any emotion at all.
“No,” she said. “No, mother. I am not Death’s Cobweb Bride. I am 
his Champion.”
The End of Cobweb Bride, Book One
The story continues in . . .
Cobweb Empire, Book Two
Available Now!
Don’t miss another book by Vera Nazarian!
Subscribe to the mailing list to be notified when the next books in the 
Cobweb Bride Trilogy by Vera Nazarian are available.
We promise not to spam you or chit-chat, and only make occasional book 
release announcements.
Author’s Note: Imaginary History and Geography
If you’ve made it this far, you are probably wondering about some of the 
liberties taken with history, in particular the fantasy version of the 
Renaissance, and the unusual European geography and topology in this 
alternate universe.
Cobweb Bride  takes place in an imaginary “pocket” of Europe 
sometime in an alternate version of the 17th century Renaissance. I’ve 
modified the continent of Europe by inserting a significant wedge of land 
between France and Italy, dissolving Austria and Hungary into Germany 
and pushing the whole thing up north, shifting Spain halfway to the east 
and lowering the northern shores of the Mediterranean by pushing the 
southern portion of the continental landmass further down south so that 
the French Riviera is now where the sea is in our own reality.
Imagine a cross, with Germany up north, Spain to the south, France 
to the west, and Italy to the East. In the heart of the cross lies the 
imaginary land that comprises the Realm and the Domain.
Other minor liberties taken include the referral to some physical 
parcels of land as “Dukedom” as opposed to the correct term “Duchy.” 
Royal and noble titles, ranks, and their terminology are similar, but not the 
exact equivalents of our own historical reality.
The culture of the Realm and the Domain is an uneven mixture of 
French, Italian, Spanish, and German influences of the late Middle Ages 
and early Renaissance. The language spoken is Latin-based “Romance,” 
and the linguistics are also a mixture of the same.
And now, please turn the page to see a list of all the character names 
with a pronunciation key.
List of Characters
(Dramatis Personae)
With Pronunciation Key
Death, Lord of the Keep of the Northern Forest
Village of Oarclaven (Lethe) (Oh-ahr-CLAY-ven)
Persephone (Per-SEH-phonee) or Percy (PUR-see) Ayren (EYE-Ren), 
middle daughter
Parabelle (Pah-rah-BELL) or Belle (Bell) Ayren, eldest daughter
Patriciana (Pah-tree-see-AHNA) or Patty (PEH-dee) Ayren, youngest 
daughter
Niobea (Nee-oh-BEH-ah) Ayren, their mother
Alann (Ah-LAHN) Ayren, their father
Bethesia (Beth-EH-zee-ah) Ayren, their grandmother
Johuan (Joh-HWAN) Ayren, their grandfather
Guel (Goo-EHL) Ayren, their uncle from Fioren (south of Letheburg)
Jack Rosten (ROS-ten), villager
Jules (JOOL-z), Jack’s second son, promised to Jenna Doneil
Father Dibue (Dee-B’YOU), village priest
Nicholas (NIH-koh-luss) Doneil (Doh-NEYL), village butcher
Marie (Muh-REE) Doneil, his wife
Faith Groaden (GROW-den), village girl
Mister Jaquard (Zhah-KARD), villager
Uncle Roald (ROH-uld), villager, the Ayrens’ neighbor across the street.
Bettie (BEH-tee), village girl
Kingdom of Lethe (LEH-thee) (Realm)
The Prince Heir Roland (Roh-LUND) Osenni (Oh-SYEN-nee) of Lethe
The Princess Lucia (Liu-SEE-ah) Osenni of Lethe
Queen Mother Andrelise (Un-dreh-LEEZ) Osenni
Prince John-Meryl (JON MEH-reel) Osenni, son and heir of the Prince.
Dukedom of Chidair (Chee-DEHR) (Lethe)
Duke Hoarfrost, Ian Chidair of Lethe
Lord Beltain (Bell-TEYN) Chidair of Lethe, his son, the black knight
Rivour (Ree-VOOR), Beltain’s old valet
Father Orweil (Or-WAIL), Chidair family chapel priest
Riquar (Reek-WAHR), Beltain’s man-a-arms
Annie, girl in the forest
Dukedom of Goraque (Gor-AH-k) (Lethe)
Duke Vitalio (Vee-TAH-lee-oh) Goraque of Lethe
The Silver Court (Realm)
The Emperor Josephuste (Jo-zeh-FOOS-teh) Liguon (Lee-G’WON) II of 
the Realm
The Empress Justinia (Joo-STEE-nee-ah) Liguon
The Infanta Claere (KLEH-r) Liguon, the Grand Princess
Lady Milagra (Mee-LAH-grah) Rinon (Ree-NOHN), the Infanta’s First 
Lady-in-Attendance
Marquis Rinon of Morphaea, her father
Lady Selene (Seh-LEHN) Jenevais (Zheh-neh-VAH-is), Lady-in-
Attendance, of Lethe
Lady Floricca (FLOH-ree-kah) Grati (GRAH-tee), Lady-in-Attendance, 
of Styx
Lady Liana (Lee-AH-nah) Crusait (Kroo-SAH-eet), Lady-in-Attendance, 
of Morphaea
Lady Alis (Ah-LEE-s) Denear (Deh-ne-AHR), Lady-in-Attendance, of 
Lethe
Baron Carlo (KAR-loh) Irnolas (Eer-noh-LAH-s), Imperial knight
Lord Givard (Ghee-VAHR-d) Mariseli (Mah-ree-SEH-lee), Imperial 
Knight
Doctor Belquar (Behl-KWAH-r), head Imperial physician
Doctor Hartel (Hahr-TEH-l), Imperial physician
Kingdom of Styx (STEEK-s) (Realm)
King Augustus (Uh-GUS-tus) Ixion (EEK-see-ohn) of Styx
King Claudeis (Kloh-DEH-ees) Ixion of Styx, deceased
Queen Rea (REH-ah) Ixion of Styx, deceased
Marquis Vlau (V’LAH-oo) Fiomarre (F’yoh-MAH-r) of Styx
Micul (Mee-KOOL) Fiomarre of Styx, Vlau’s father
Ebrai (Eh-BRAH-ee) Fiomarre, Vlau’s older brother
Celen (Seh-LEH-n) Fiomarre, Vlau’s younger brother
Marquise Eloise (Eh-loh-EEZ) Fiomarre, Vlau’s mother, deceased
Oleandre (Oh-leh-AHN-dr) Fiomarre, Vlau’s younger sister
Lady Ignacia (Eeg-NAY-shuh) Chitain (Chee-TAY-n), of Styx/Balmue
Kingdom of Morphaea (Mohr-FEH-ah) (Realm)
King Orphe (Or-FEH) Geroard (Geh-roh-AHR-d) of Morphea
Duke Claude (KLOH-d) Rovait (Roh-VEY-t) of Morphaea
Andre (Ahn-DREH) Eldon (Ehl-DOH-n), the Duke of Plaimes (PLEY-
m’s), of Morphaea
Duchess Christiana (Khree-stee-AH-nah) Rovait of Morphaea
Countess Jain (JEY-n) Lirabeau (Lee-rah-BOH) of Morphaea
Lady Amaryllis (Ah-mah-REE-liss) Roulle (ROOL), of Morphaea
Lord Nathan (NEY-th’n) Woult (WOOL-t), of Morphaea
The Road
Grial (Gree-AHL), witch woman from Letheburg (LEH-thee-b’rg)
Ronna (ROHN-nuh) Liet (LEE-eh-t), Innkeeper at Tussecan (TUSS-see-
kahn), Grial’s cousin
Mrs. Beck (BEH-k), cook at Ronna’s Inn
Jenna (JEH-nuh) Doneil (Doh-NEY-l), butcher’s daughter from 
Oarclaven
Flor (FLOH-r) Murel (M’you-REH-l), baker’s daughter from Oarclaven
Gloria (GLOH-ree-ah) Libbin (LEE-bin), blacksmith’s daughter from 
Oarclaven
Emilie (Eh-mee-LEE) Bordon (Bohr-DOHN), swineherd’s daughter from 
south of Oarclaven
Sibyl (SEE-beel), tailor’s daughter from Letheburg
Regata (Reh-GAH-tah), merchant’s daughter from Letheburg
Lizabette (Lee-zah-BET) Crowlé (Krow-LEH), teacher’s daughter from 
Duarden (Doo-AHR-dehn)
Catrine (Kaht-REEN), sister of Niosta, from south of Letheburg
Niosta (Nee-OHS-tuh), sister of Catrine, from south of Letheburg
Marie (Mah-REE), girl from Fioren (F’YOH-rehn), originally from the 
Kingdom of Serenoa (Seh-REH-noh-ah) (Domain)
The Sapphire Court (Domain)
The Sovereign, Rumanar (Roo-mah-NAH-r) Avalais (Ah-vah-LAH-ees) 
of the Domain
Kingdom of Balmue (Bahl-MOO) (Domain)
King Clavian (Klah-vee-AHN) Sestial (Ses-tee-AH-l) of Balmue
Marquis Nuor (Noo-OHR) Alfre (Ahl-FREH), ambassador of Balmue, 
Peer of the Domain
Viscount Halronne (Hal-RONN) Deupris (Deh-oo-PREE), Peer of the 
Domain
Other Books by Vera Nazarian
Lords of Rainbow
Dreams of the Compass Rose
Salt of the Air
The Perpetual Calendar of Inspiration
The Clock King and the Queen of the Hourglass
Mayhem at Grant-Williams High (YA)
The Duke in His Castle
After the Sundial
Mansfield Park and Mummies
Northanger Abbey and Angels and Dragons
Pride and Platypus: Mr. Darcy’s Dreadful Secret
Vampires are from Venus, Werewolves are from Mars:
A Comprehensive Guide to Attracting Supernatural Love
Cobweb Bride
Cobweb Empire
Cobweb Forest
Qualify (The Atlantis Grail, Book 1)
Compete (The Atlantis Grail, Book 2)
Win (The Atlantis Grail, Book 3)
(Forthcoming)
Survive (The Atlantis Grail, Book 4)
Pagan Persuasion: All Olympus Descends on Regency
Thank you for your support!
About the Author
Vera Nazarian immigrated to the USA from the former USSR as a kid, 
sold her first story at the age of 17, and since then has published numerous 
works in anthologies and magazines, and has seen her fiction translated 
into eight languages.
She made her novelist debut with the critically acclaimed arabesque 
“collage” novel Dreams of the Compass Rose, followed by epic fantasy 
about a world without color, Lords of Rainbow. Her novella The Clock 
King and the Queen of the Hourglass from PS Publishing (UK) with an 
introduction by Charles de Lint made the Locus Recommended Reading 
List for 2005. Her debut short fiction collection Salt of the Air, with an 
introduction by Gene Wolfe, contains the 2007 Nebula Award-nominated 
“The Story of Love.” Other work includes the 2008 Nebula Award-
nominated, self-illustrated baroque fantasy novella The Duke in His Castle
, science fiction collection  After the Sundial  (2010), self-illustrated 
Supernatural Jane Austen Series parodies Mansfield Park and Mummies 
(2009), Northanger Abbey and Angels and Dragons (2010), Pride and 
Platypus: Mr. Darcy’s Dreadful Secret (2012), The Perpetual Calendar of 
Inspiration (2010), and a parody of paranormal love and relationships 
advice Vampires are from Venus, Werewolves are from Mars (2012).
Vera recently relocated from Los Angeles to the East Coast. She lives 
in a small town in Vermont, and uses her Armenian sense of humor and 
her Russian sense of suffering to bake conflicted pirozhki and make art.
In addition to being a writer and award-winning artist, she is also the 
publisher of Norilana Books.
Official website:
http://www.veranazarian.com/
Acknowledgements
There are so many of you whose unwavering,
loving support made this book happen—
My gratitude is boundless, and I thank you
with all my heart.
First, my dear friends and fantastic first readers:
Susan Franzblau and Anastasia Rudman.
Kickstarter Acknowledgements
And all the generous and wonderful Kickstarter backers, you who are 
amazing friends, colleagues, supporters, readers, fans, and one-time 
strangers who are now friends:
Alan Levi
Alexander the Drake
Alfred D. Byrd
Allison Lonsdale
Anastasia Rudman
Andrea Brokaw
Andrew Hatchell
Ann Walker
Anne Landaker
Anne W. Brown
Anonymous
Anonymous
April Steenburgh
Auntie M
B. Ross Ashley
Belle Shalom
Berry Kercheval
Brian Springer
Bridget McKenna
Brittany Warman
Brook and Julia West
Carl’s London Blog
Caro Soles
Carrie
Catherine Lundoff
Cheryl L Martin
Chris Hansen
Christine Verstraete
Craig Smith
Cynthia Ward
Dave Bloom
Dawn Albright
Dayle Dermatis
Deanna Hoak
Deborah J. Brannon
Dino Mascolo
Deborah Koren
Donna Boswell
Eben Brooks
Elinor Pravda
Elisa Hategan
Elizabeth Davis
Estara Swanberg
Francesca Myman
F.R.R. Mallory
Gavran
Geoffrey Jacoby
Gregory S. Close
Harriet Culver
Helen E Davis
Hervey Allen
Hetty Lacey
Ilana Kats
JB Murphy
Jamie K. Schmidt
Jane Tanfei
Janice Y.
Jay Denebeim
Jean Mornard
Jean Tatro
Jenn Reese
Jennifer Chun
jess haley
Jill Gewirtz
Joan
Joan Marie Verba
Joanne Renaud
Jodi Davis
Joseph Hoopman
Judith Ditzler
Julia Dickinson
Kaila Yee
Kari
Kathryn Huxtable
Kathryn Llewe
Kelly E.
K. M. Fields
Keslynn
Klaus Kluge
Kristen Bell
Kristine Smith
kyle cassidy
Larissa Brown
Lilly Ibelo
Linda
Lisa Bouchard
Leslie R. Lee
Lydia Ondrusek
M Reid
M.K. Hobson
Maggie Brinkley
Maria Vagner
Marian Allen
Mark Galpin
Max Kaehn
Megan Korchinski
Melanie Fletcher
Mia Nutick
Mike Garrett
Michelle
Michelle
Nathan Blumenfeld
Neile Graham
Nin Harris
Pam Adams
Penn Davies
Peter David
Raechel Henderson
Rebecca Newman
Rene Arnush
Richard G. Molpus
Richard Suitor
R-Laurraine Tutihasi
Robert Brandt
R W Glover
Robin Burzan
Ron Collins
Rosie
Rudi Dornemann
Samantha Henderson
Sarah M. Heile
Sarah Liberman
Shannon
S
Simo Muinonen
Stella Bloom
Susan Franzblau
Swapna Kishore
Sylvia Fragner
Thomas Krech
Tammy DeGray
Terry McGarry
The Creature From Dell Pond
Trent Walters
W. Scott Meeks
West McDonough
William J Bowles
Wtaylor
My deepest thanks to all for your support!
Before you go, you are kindly invited to leave a review of this book!
Reviews are a wonderful way to help the author! They are also an exciting 
opportunity to share your honest thoughts with other readers, so please 
post yours, in as many places as possible!
