
Chapter 1: The Sacred Text
Lannon Sunshield's father seemed worse than ever on this day, an aura of gloom 
and despair engulfing him like a poisonous fog. Lannon shrank back from that aura, 
but it seemed to reach from his father like dreary fingers that gripped the boy's heart 
and kept him from fleeing from the house. Lannon's mother didn't seem to notice, as 
she was lost in her usual evening rage.
"You're utterly useless," Lannon's mother snarled at her husband. "I work all day 
until I'm so tired I can hardly move, while empty ale jugs pile up around your feet. 
The least you could do is clean up after yourself."
"You know I’m sick," her husband muttered. For a moment the darkness 
thoroughly infested his gaze, a writhing shadow that hinted at the madness in his soul. 
"I can’t handle things like I used to. Otherwise, you'd never have to lift a finger to do 
any work. I'd do it all with a smile on my face."
She threw back her head and laughed mockingly (which was one of her favorite 
gestures). "You say some truly funny things, husband. But I know better. You were 
lazy before you got sick. No, the burden of work around here is mine to bear alone."
Lannon cringed. He hated it when his parents acted like he was useless. Even 
though his mother's words weren't directed specifically at Lannon, they made him 
want to sink through the floor. Unlike his father, Lannon was ashamed of his laziness, 
but he did nothing to remedy it. He would stand by and watch his stick-thin mother 
labor to carry in firewood, and then he would warm himself before the stove. He 
thought dishes somehow washed themselves, and he would kick something out of his 
way before bothering to pick it up. Tory, however, worked hard every day, gutting 
fish until her hands went numb at her job in town while the men stayed home and 
made messes.
Lannon's parents waged their war amid an ugly battlefield that came in the form 
of a shoddy cabin in the middle of nowhere, complete with a leaky roof, bug-infested 
logs, and a yard full of decaying junk. It was the home of a man who bore a dark 
illness of the spirit for which no cure seemed to exist. Lannon’s father spent hours 
glaring at bugs on the wall and making threats. He'd been arrested twice in town for 
splitting barrels open with an axe and insisting scheming dwarves were hiding within 
them.
Meanwhile, Lannon spent his days wondering when the madness would end. He 
had no friends, and every day was the same old thing. He wandered the forested 
valley that surrounded his home and then wandered it some more. He caught fish and 
then put them back so he might catch them again. He battled trees with sword-sticks 
and waited. And waited some more. He never knew for sure what he was waiting for, 
but he guessed it was adulthood and escape.
Lannon’s father was named Doanan, and his mother was Tory. The fact that they 
both had names was all they seemed to have in common. They fought so much that 
almost nothing in the home wasn’t cracked or broken. Yet their rage was seldom 
directed toward Lannon. Instead, the boy was treated with an odd sort of pity that was 
worse than being the target of rage (when he wasn't being completely ignored).
"I can do some stuff around here," said Lannon, already knowing what the result 
would be. "I'm fifteen years old and not a child anymore."
"Do you want me to get up and work?" Doanan said to Tory, not even glancing 
at Lannon. "What tasks shall I perform, your majesty?"
"Just drink your ale and be silent," Tory said, "like you always do. I don't expect 
you to do any work, Doanan. I gave up on that years ago. But the least you can do is 
keep your toothless mouth shut while I slave away."
On this warm summer afternoon, Tory had just returned from the fishery. As 
usual, her clothes were covered in scales. She continued bellowing at Doanan while 
she scrubbed her gnarled hands in a bucket of cold stream water. "I do all the work," 
she spat. "All of it." She looked like a spindly preying mantis rubbing its legs 
together. "And what do I get for my troubles? I get to come home to you, Doanan--the 
sorriest sod in Silverland."
Lannon’s father sat slumped in a battered chair. His hairy legs poked out from 
beneath a filthy robe, and ale jugs surrounded his bony feet. What remained of his 
grey hair pointed skyward in dirty tufts. His skeletal face was covered in a map of 
lines, his brown eyes resting above dark spots. His mouth held shadowy gaps where 
teeth should have been. That mouth hung open in a huge, delighted (scary, certainly) 
grin. A dastardly twinkle shone in his eye, as he glanced from his wife to where 
Lannon stood by the door ready to escape. 
"Oh, is that right?" Doanan said, still grinning. "So I’m the evil man here. This is 
truly funny. Isn’t it, Lannon?"
Lannon knew better than to reply.
Undaunted, Doanan went on. "Look at your mother, Lannon. Just look at her. 
She’s the big queen bee of this royal hive."
Tory raised an eyebrow and stuck her scrawny neck out toward him. Her short 
black hair was cut in a bowl shape with uneven edges, boyish like her gaunt face. Her 
left eye was open wide with bulging mockery. "That’s right. I am the queen bee. And 
don’t you forget it, husband. You know why? Because I’m the only one that does any 
work. If it wasn’t for me, this home would fall apart."
Doanan’s huge grin twisted into some kind of humorless leer. "Maybe so. But 
don’t forget that I saved you from working yourself to death on that farm. Your father 
would have had you slave away until your knees were ground into meal and your 
back was brittle like cornstalks from a frost. If I hadn’t come along to save you, your 
father would have--"
"Leave my father out of this!" Tory shouted. "He was ten times the man you’ll 
ever be. And if you speak ill of him again, I’ll tear your eyeballs out!"
Doanan spat on the floor. "So this is what I get for a life of sacrifice? This is what 
the gods have rewarded me with?"
"Be quiet, you crazy fool," Tory said, turning back to her task of scrubbing her 
gnarled hands. "Why don’t you drink yourself to sleep? It’s all you’re good for these 
days. Goodness knows I spend enough on your ale. You might as well use it up so I 
can go waste more money."
"Ale is all I have, woman!" Doanan growled, kicking a jug across the room and 
sending a frightened rat scampering for cover. "You know it helps fight my illness. 
Without my ale, I would decline swiftly."
Tory threw back her head and cackled until tears actually streamed down her 
face. "Oh, tell me another lie, husband. You're not fooling me, and Lannon knows 
how you are. The boy is not blind."
"Yes, he is blind," Doanan whispered, "and so are you." He hung his head. "So is 
everyone in this world."
The gloom seemed to squeeze Lannon tighter, radiating from his father in 
nauseating waves. The sickness was soon to start making Doanan rant about things 
that had given Lannon countless nightmares. Lannon glanced at the door but could not 
bring himself to flee just yet. He felt paralyzed by his father's gaze.
"Don’t start your foolish talk," Tory said, turning away quickly (but not so 
quickly Lannon couldn’t see that her face had paled a bit). "You know that nonsense 
scares the boy."
"Maybe he should be scared," Doanan said. "Why not? The gods know I am. I 
told you, Lannon, that the shadow is the blood. Remember? It is too deep for you to 
see--the Deep Shadow. The dark beneath the dark. It is the blood, flowing beneath the 
skin of our world. I can feel it in my dreams. It chokes me." He gazed at Lannon 
crookedly. "Do you think you comprehend what fear is, my son? The Deep Shadow is 
fear itself. Larger than the heavens. It could eat our world just like that!" Doanan 
snapped his fingers. "Strip away our flesh, enslave our souls."
"I said stop that talk," Tory said, with her back to him. "I mean it, Doanan." Her 
hands were shaking.
"It wants to devour everything, Lannon," Doanan went on. "Whatever it touches, 
it undoes. Our world gets dissolved, along with our skin and bones. Then our souls 
are captured by sorcerers who use us in their ongoing wars. We suffer in 
unimaginable ways. And we can never find peace."
"I said that’s enough!" Tory slammed the washbasin aside, splashing soapy water 
everywhere. She turned and lunged toward Doanan, her hands raised in a choking 
gesture. She was so appallingly thin that Lannon looked away in helpless disgust. 
"One more word," she said, and you won’t have to worry about your crazy dreams 
any longer!"
Doanan nodded, his face grim. "I’ll keep quiet for now. But Lannon knows I say 
these things to warn him. It’s for his own good. Right, my son? You understand, don’t 
you?"
Lannon shrugged helplessly, and the paralysis that gripped him seemed to 
diminish. As the boy gazed at his father, he could only feel deep pity for an old man 
who was fighting a losing battle against some terrible, unseen foe.
Lannon’s father gazed into infinity. "It's all for nothing," he whispered. "Struggle 
and struggle some more, and in the end, a bit of dust for our troubles. That’s what's 
left. Just a bit of dust to mark the end of all things."
Tory flew at him.
They continued their little war, and Lannon wandered out into the yard, 
slamming the door behind him in frustration.
"Are you trying to break my door?" his father bellowed after him. "Sure, go on 
and wreck everything, you sorry little..."
Lannon sighed loudly, blocking out his father’s muffled rants. "What a fine day!" 
he shouted, raising his arms dramatically. But as he looked around, he found that he 
liked what he saw. Mist swirled through the ancient oak forest, rolling across the 
grassy clearing where the cabin sat. The sky was purple with thunderclouds, the air 
charged with electricity, making Lannon’s hair stand on end. A storm could hammer 
down at any time, and Lannon welcomed it. A storm symbolized change. Rain and 
mist could conceal and inspire. Mystery was interwoven into the wet earth and mossy 
tree trunks, in the creeping mist and the angry frown of the clouds. The dim, unhappy 
cabin suddenly seemed a world away.
Fresh air, heavily scented with damp forest, filled Lannon’s lungs. He gazed 
skyward, hoping the rain would come and soak him to the skin, hoping it would 
awaken change within him somehow. On this day, the forest he usually despised had 
become powerful in some sense he couldn't comprehend, and he would walk in it 
gladly and give himself completely to its embrace.
Their old horse, Grazzal, stood near the edge of the field inside the split-rail fence 
Lannon’s father had built years ago when he was healthy. The horse raised his head, 
watching Lannon with his dark eyes. The coming storm sent shivers down his mane, 
and he stomped nervously.  The roof of Grazzal's tiny stable was caving in, offering 
little shelter against the weather. Lannon had tried halfheartedly to repair it, but he 
wasn't good at fixing anything, and in the end he'd thrown an old quilt over the hole. 
His mother had promised to bring someone from the town of Knights Welcome to 
repair it, but she never seemed to get around to it (though she used Grazzal to take her 
to the fishery every day). Lannon suspected his mother had no intention of repairing 
it, considering how old the horse was. When Grazzal died, she would get another 
horse, and then maybe she would have the roof fixed.
Lannon stroked Grazzal's mane. "I’ll fix your roof soon enough," he said. "At 
least before winter." He sighed. Maybe the quilt would hold.
Then, with the dismal cabin at his back, Lannon set off into the maze of mist and 
shadowy tree trunks, following a narrow path crisscrossed by gnarled roots. He picked 
up a stick and swung it absently. The fresh, earthy scents and ethereal fog helped 
soothe his mood, and he imagined himself as a warrior on a quest, ready to club some 
nasty Goblin hiding behind some huge oak. Of course, no real monsters existed this 
far from the Bloodlands, but that didn’t stop Lannon from imagining one might have 
somehow made the journey. He swung his club against a rotten stump, scattering 
pieces here and there like Goblin bone and brain. "Die, wretch!" he growled. "And die 
swiftly! Ha!"
Lannon struck the stump again, and this time his stick broke. He moved on, still 
carrying half of his weapon. Mossy boulders, little streams, and ancient trees sprung 
from the mist here and there to greet him. The humidity made his forehead drip. As 
always, his mind crept back to his family situation. How could he persuade his parents 
to get along with each other and create a happy home? And as always, he could find 
no answer. Once he reached adulthood, he could escape the situation by moving out, 
but for them he saw only a dark and miserable future.
To battle the oppressive monotony of his life, Lannon had explored this wooded 
valley many times over, until finally reaching the conclusion that there was only one 
remotely interesting place here, and it was small. Lannon called it the Quiet Spot. 
Sometimes when he needed to escape, he went there, and he could feel it calling to 
him on this day.
Lannon left the trail, pushing branches aside and stepping over rotten logs. A day 
like this was a blessing, for everything seemed to have a different look and feel. With 
all the fog, Lannon felt like he walked in a strange land rather than woods he'd grown 
up in. The same old trees, stumps, and boulders that Lannon was so familiar with took 
on odd shapes in the mist. Visibility was so poor that he nearly wandered past the 
Quiet Spot without realizing it.
The Quiet Spot was a circle of mossy boulders that stood amongst the giant oaks, 
with a little stream running through the middle. Lannon knelt by the stream and 
splashed water in his face, washing away the sweat from the humid day. He ran his 
fingers through his tangled blond hair, pushing it from his eyes, and gazed at his 
reflection in the stream. He was not a shining example of a healthy fifteen-year old 
boy. The flesh of his thin face looked startlingly pale, his bright green eyes staring out 
in stark contrast. He was a bit on the skinny side and short for his age.
His parents' harsh words to each other still echoed in his head, and their bitterness 
was something he could never seem to get used to. Someday (probably all too soon) 
his father would die from his disease, and then all of their arguments would mean 
nothing. Why couldn't they see that?
Lannon stared gloomily into the stream, wondering why his home had to be so 
remote. The isolation seemed to make all of the problems so much worse. But 
Lannon's father had always preferred the solitude and the quiet, claiming it helped 
ease his burdens somehow, and all of the wholesome plants and trees here seemed to 
give him greater resistance against the growing sickness.
Lannon scooped up cool water in his hands and drank deeply, splashing most of it 
down the front of his tunic, and his troubles were momentarily forgotten. He could 
feel the strength of the Quiet Spot reaching into his heart and soothing it. It was in the 
smell of the trees, the soil, and the moss. Lannon had found the words Knights Valley 
engraved in one of the boulders, and whenever he came here, he often imagined he 
was a Knight resting after a long day of combat and adventure. This area left him 
feeling peaceful and quiet inside like no other place could.
Lannon heard a hissing noise and looked up. A Tree Goblin was hanging from an 
oak limb in the fog, watching him with its huge eyes. The scrawny pale-skinned 
Goblin, which was only a little bigger than a rabbit, made no immediate move, but its 
eyes gleamed with contempt. Its mouth split open to reveal rows of sharp little teeth, 
and again it hissed at Lannon, before uttering a low snarl.
Lannon chuckled. "You don't scare me, little Tree Goblin."
The Tree Goblin's eyes narrowed, the evil gleam shining deeper and more 
menacing, while its mouth opened wider. Its face became a grimace of doom. Slowly 
it lowered one hand, and the black claws contracted and opened several times, as if 
desiring to be fastened upon Lannon's neck.
Lannon leapt up and growled. With a screech, the creature shot up into the 
treetops and was lost from sight. Lannon smiled and called out "Some kind of monster 
you are!" Being the only Goblins capable of reproducing outside of the breeding 
grounds known as the Bloodlands, Tree Goblins were common in these woods, and 
Lannon was grateful for that. He was fascinated by Goblins in general, and these 
timid branch dwellers could sometimes provide playful amusement for him, which he 
sorely needed.
Lannon sat around for a while, watching frogs leap about by the stream, and then 
he stood up and sighed, suddenly realizing how hungry he was. It was nearing 
dinnertime, and he'd slept through the lunch of fried mushrooms (he hated mushrooms 
prepared in any fashion) his father had cooked. If he wanted to eat, he would have to 
return home. 
***
When Lannon reached the clearing where his house sat, three horses with finely 
crafted saddles and packs stood at the edge of the grass, looking like grey statues in 
the mist, their huge, muscular bodies seemingly carved from stone. Only their dark 
eyes moved, cautiously watching Lannon as he stepped from the forest. These horses 
were free to move about, yet they simply stood and waited patiently for their masters 
to return.  Displayed on the black saddle blanket of each horse was the Crest of 
Dremlock Kingdom--a bizarre image of a cluster of three purple crystals set on a 
white background. Below each crest was a name and title in green letters: Cordus 
Landsaver, Lord Knight;  Taris Warhawk, East Tower Master;  Furlus Goblincrusher, 
West Tower Master.
Lannon's breath caught in his throat, so shocked was he that Knights had come to 
his little valley. But there was no mistaking it. The names and titles were very familiar 
even to someone as isolated as Lannon, and the breed of the horses alone was a 
giveaway, for these great beasts--called Greywinds--were bred exclusively in the 
stables of Dremlock Kingdom. No one but a Knight was permitted to ride one. 
Without a doubt, these horses belonged to the Knights of the Divine Order--and to the 
three most respected of all, the Lord Knight and his Tower Masters.
Lannon couldn't fathom why such famous Knights would venture into his remote 
valley. He peered in through a window. The three Knights were indeed in his home, 
seated around a table in the dining room and eating heartily. His father sat at the table 
also, looking pale yet not greatly concerned, while his mother, her hands trembling, 
served milk from a pitcher. Tory's face was bright red with embarrassment, 
undoubtedly due to the messiness of the house.
"The Knights are just visiting," Lannon whispered nervously. "Probably just 
passing through." Perhaps they were on their way somewhere important and had 
simply stopped in for a meal and a rest.
Gathering his courage, Lannon hurried inside. He'd seen these Knights before, 
but not this close, and for a moment he could only stare in awe at them. Taris 
Warhawk, the Birlote (or Tree Dweller, as some called them), wore a grey, hooded 
cloak. His bright green eyes, which were set in a pointy-chinned face, reflected 
wisdom and power and contrasted his bronze-colored skin. Furlus Goblincrusher, 
despite being a bit short in height--he was, after all, an Olrog (or Grey Dwarf, as some 
called them)--was reputed to be one of the strongest Knights ever. His plate armor and 
battle axe looked to weigh a ton, yet the muscles that bulged beneath that armor were 
more than up to the task. His beard, which was a darker shade of grey than his flesh, 
was as broad as his chest, while his small eyes were set beneath drooping brows. 
Cordus Landsaver, the Lord Knight of Dremlock, was taller than the other two, and he 
wore a shining silver breastplate, engraved with an image of three towers, that 
Lannon's gaze kept straying to as if drawn there by some unseen force. His dark hair 
and beard were somewhat unkempt, his blue eyes fierce.
"Greetings, Lannon," Cordus Landsaver said. "We've been waiting for you."
Lannon struggled to find his voice. Then he blurted out, "Good to meet you." He 
bowed somewhat shakily. He strove to calm his nerves, wanting only to make a good 
impression on the Divine Knights.
Cordus and Furlus exchanged an amused glance. But Taris Warhawk's gleaming 
eyes regarded Lannon coldly from under his hood.
"Your father tells me you were named after his brother," said Cordus. "Yet you 
bear the last name of Sunshield. A Knightly name, from the sound of it."
Lannon nodded. "My father gave me that name."
"And it's a fine name," grunted Furlus Goblincrusher. "He bears a shield of light. 
Not just any light, but the greatest of all found in nature--that of the sun itself. 
Darkness cannot exist in the presence of such a light. Yes, it's a fine name indeed."
"I disagree," said Taris Warhawk, a sneer on his lips. "The sun knows nothing of 
good or evil. His shield then is neutral. It serves neither justice nor corruption. It 
simply exists like the sun--a soulless object without Knightly stature."
"The sun gives life and warms the world," said Cordus, smiling. "Without it, all 
would die. What you do think, boy?"
Lannon shrugged, unsure of how to reply. Heroic last names were a tradition with 
the Knights, but Sunshield was a name Lannon had always felt was stupid. Why 
couldn't his father have picked something bold sounding like Dragonslayer or 
Axemaster? For some reason, his father had always hoped he would become a Knight 
of the Divine Order. Lannon had never believed there was even a slight chance his 
wish would be granted and he'd passed it off as more of his father's insanity. But his 
father had taken it very seriously. Back when Doanan was still able to work, he'd paid 
a woman in Knights Welcome to teach Lannon how to read and write, and he'd taken 
the boy to that town every year for Admittance Day (which was a day when the 
Knights recruited Squires) until Doanan became too ill to travel. The Knights had 
never even glanced at Lannon until now.
"Answer him, Lannon," his father commanded.
"It's a good name, I guess," said Lannon, avoiding looking at Taris. When Furlus 
and Cordus nodded in agreement, Lannon gained a little confidence. "I don't think my 
father could have chosen a better one." Doanan beamed with pride, having no clue 
how much his son actually detested the name.
"I like it," said Cordus. "But a name is still just a name--amusing and worth some 
friendly debate, but certainly not very important. So can you fight?"
"I'm not too bad at it," said Lannon, stretching the truth to the breaking point. He 
gazed at the floor, unable to look the Lord Knight in the eye. He didn't know if he 
could fight, since he'd never tried it before (unless one considered swinging sticks at 
rotten logs to be fighting).
"The boy doesn't look very strong," said Furlus. 
"I can use a club," said Lannon. "I've practiced in the woods." This, at least, was 
true. He'd begun to realize the Knights might be considering making him a Squire, 
which Lannon had always dreamt of, and he struggled furiously to think of ways he 
could impress them despite the fact that he didn't consider himself very impressive. 
"Might be handy with a mace," said Cordus, nodding to Taris. "But are you stout 
in spirit? For that is even more important."
"Maybe," said Lannon. "I'm not really sure about that." He was certainly more 
stouthearted than a Tree Goblin, if that meant anything. "Is there a way to test me?" 
Lannon knew there was, for he'd seen other lads tested in Knights Welcome on 
Admittance Day. 
"Come over here," said Cordus. "I'm going to find out for myself what you're 
made of."
Lannon glanced at his father. Doanan nodded to his son. A desperate hope was in 
his father's eyes. This was the most important test Lannon would face. It would 
probably determine whether or not he would become a Squire.
Lannon shuffled over to Cordus. He knew he wasn't very powerful, being a bit on 
the skinny side, but in the back of his mind he hoped Cordus would find something of 
value in him. Maybe Cordus would see something in Lannon that was hidden even 
from the boy. Perhaps the Lord Knight had already glimpsed something and that was 
why he was testing him. Did Lannon dare even hope?
"Kneel," Cordus commanded.
His knees feeling a bit weak, Lannon knelt before the great Knight. He didn't 
look at his father and mother, but he knew their faces were tense with anxiety. Cordus 
placed a hand on Lannon's forehead and held it there for a few moments. Warmth 
spread through the boy, reaching deep into his being and drawing forth his secrets. 
Feeling exposed and vulnerable, Lannon squirmed beneath that touch.
"Hold still, lad!"
Finally the Lord Knight withdrew his hand. Disappointment was in his eyes. 
"Enough," he said. "You've done well."
But Lannon knew he'd not done well at all. Glancing toward his father and 
mother--especially his father--he saw that they knew, too. Doanan's greatest wish was 
for him to be a Knight. If Lannon failed now, after coming this close, it might push 
Doanan the rest of the way into the grave. But Lannon could do nothing about it. It 
was up to the Knights.
"It's my turn," said Taris. "Come here, Lannon."
Feeling a spark of hope, Lannon went to Taris and knelt. Though Taris seemed at 
odds with Lannon, the boy hoped the Birlote would see something Cordus had 
missed. This time a wave of energy seemed to flood through Lannon. It left him 
paralyzed yet it was not as discomforting as Cordus' touch. It lasted only a moment.
"That is all," said Taris, removing his hand. His expression beneath his hood was 
rigid, leaving no indication of success or failure.
Next it was Furlus' turn. His touch was more like that of Cordus--a probing of 
Lannon's secrets. Furlus took a bit more time than the others. When he pulled his 
meaty hand away, he frowned and shook his head. "Not much there."
"We shall talk," said Cordus, to the Tower Masters.
The three Knights went into the living room, standing amid heaps of junk. They 
spoke quietly, yet Lannon had sharp ears and could hear much of what was said. He 
leaned against the table, watching them anxiously. He avoided looking directly at his 
mother and father, yet from the corner of his eye he saw they were holding hands, 
their eyes closed as if in prayer. This was the first time Lannon had seen them show 
any sort of affection for each other in many years.
Cordus paced about, while Taris and Furlus stood with their eyes fixed on their 
leader. "I truly thought the Signs were pointing to this boy," the Lord Knight 
mumbled. "Yet his Knightly Essence felt very weak, almost nothing. I doubt he could 
ever amount to anything. Yet he bears the name of Sunshield, and during the 
Communication, the Divine Essence said to watch for the mark of the sun, which 
would be found just beyond the Four Lakes. How can I ignore this? Yet I sensed no 
special power within him."
"I like the boy," said Furlus, "but his will is certainly not forged of steel. And I 
also sensed no hidden power."
"Lannon has no exceptional talent for sorcery," said Taris. "And he seems to lack 
any other special abilities. Yet I feel, instinctively perhaps, there is something 
different about him. We need to test him further somehow. Remember, we know little 
about the Eye of Divinity. Yet one thing we do know is that it is highly unpredictable. 
I feel we should talk with Lannon alone, and learn more about him."
The Lord Knight glanced sternly toward Lannon, and the boy took to gazing at 
the floor, pretending not to be eavesdropping. After that, the Knights whispered 
amongst themselves, and Lannon couldn't make out any of it. Meanwhile, their 
previous words tumbled through his mind, and the only thing he could gather from it 
was that they had yet to make their decision regarding him.
Doanan placed a trembling hand on the boy's shoulder. "I know the Knights are 
deciding your fate, but whatever happens, I'll be proud of you until the end of my 
days. Take heart in that, if no other good comes of this."
Lannon forced a smile, knowing his father might indeed be proud of him but that 
it would in no way curb Doanan's deep disappointment if Lannon failed to become a 
Squire. Yet at least for once his parents weren't fighting about anything. The little 
house seemed strangely quiet.
As the Knights entered the dining room, Doanan sighed deeply, as if the will and 
strength had been sapped from him. He glanced back and forth from the Knights to 
his son. He looked as if he wanted to say something but was holding himself in check. 
Doanan's lifelong dream--as crazy as it had always seemed to Lannon--now hung in 
the balance, and Lannon's father could do nothing but wait. His words would make no 
difference to the Knights.
"We would like to talk to you outside, Lannon," said Cordus, "and learn more 
about you. There are questions that still need answering, but we need to speak to you 
alone."
"We could go to the Quiet Spot," said Lannon. "It's the best place in the woods, 
with lots of old stones. I go there all the time. "
"It's not necessary," said Cordus. "We only need to step outside for a moment and 
ask you a few questions, while your parents remain in here."
"I would like to see this Quiet Spot for myself," said Taris.
Cordus nodded. "If you must."
"I would be very much honored," Tory said, "if you would all return for dinner 
later. We are poor, but I offer you the best we have."
Cordus bowed. "Thank you for your kindness, but we probably won't be staying 
that long. Once our business with Lannon is finished, we must move on. The affairs of 
our kingdom cannot be kept waiting."
"Cordus may change his mind," said Furlus. "We could use a good meal, and he 
may yet come to his senses. You'll want to set the table just in case."
"That won't be necessary," said Cordus, nodding to Tory and moving toward the 
door. "But again I thank you for your kindness."
Furlus motioned to the table and winked at Tory. "Red meat, my lady, if you've 
got it. And ale, of course." Furlus nudged a jug with his toe. "I see you have plenty of 
that, at least." Furlus laid a few silver coins on the table. "For your troubles, of 
course."
"I wouldn't think of it," said Tory, though her eyes strayed longingly to the coins, 
which were worth more than she made in a month at the fishery. "You are a guest 
here, and this is not an inn."
"Consider it a gift for your hospitality," said Furlus. When she still made no 
move to pick up the coins, he frowned. "Will you not except a gift from a Knight of 
Dremlock Kingdom?"
Tory's face reddened, and she swiped up the coins. "Of course we will! And we 
thank you most sincerely. I shall prepare a meal at once."
Doanan stepped toward Lannon and seemed eager to speak to his son, but then 
he hung his head and said nothing. 
***
As they strode through the woods on foot, Lannon's heart raced as he led them 
onward. He was overflowing with the hope that he would be made a Squire, that he 
would at last be free of his miserable existence in this remote valley. He felt there had 
to be some way he could convince the Knights he was worth choosing (even if he 
actually wasn't). Lost in his ponderings and anxieties, Lannon wandered past the 
Quiet Spot in the misty woods for a fair distance before realizing where he was. But 
the Knights knew nothing of this forest, and so Lannon simply acted as if he knew 
exactly where he was going, circling back until they reached the stream surrounded by 
the ring of mossy boulders.
Taris Warhawk kept his distance from the others, leaning against an oak by the 
water. He'd almost faded into the mist, with only a vague outline of his cloak visible 
next to the huge, knotted tree trunk. Furlus stood next to Cordus, his arms folded 
across his barrel chest, frowning as he gazed at the ground.
Cordus glanced about and breathed deeply, taking in the scent of the moss and 
twisted oaks. "This spot feels like some areas of Knightwood, a forest which 
surrounds my kingdom, and the trees here are of equal stature."
Lannon nodded. His apprehension was strong, but he tried to look to the positive 
side of things. Even if he didn't end up a Squire, why not just enjoy spending time 
with these great Knights while the time still existed?
"Tell me a few things about yourself, lad," said Cordus.
Lannon gulped, struggling to think of anything even slightly interesting about his 
life. But there was nothing, and so finally he just told the truth. "I mostly just live here 
in the valley," he stammered. 
"Have you ever had any strange experiences?" Cordus asked. "Dreams getting 
confused with reality? Or knowing things you should not be able to know? Strive to 
remember anything out of the ordinary."
Lannon tried, but could only remember a few odd and senseless dreams. He 
related them to Cordus.
"Nothing exceptional there," muttered Furlus.
Taris pulled moss off some of the boulders and knelt to study the exposed rock. 
"These stones were placed here deliberately," he called out. "Many have fallen, but 
once they formed a precise and partial circle. Quite unusual."
"Try harder, Lannon," Cordus said, apparently ignoring Taris. "There is no need 
to hurry. Just think carefully back over the years."
For a moment, Lannon considered making something up. It wouldn't be hard to 
invent one or two incidents to gain the Lord Knight's interest, provided they weren't 
too fantastic in nature. Lannon felt he was smart enough to make himself sound 
believable. Yet before he put his imagination to work, he struggled briefly with his 
conscience and his fears over lying to the leader of what was widely considered to 
be a sacred kingdom. Finally he realized his desire to escape this valley and become a 
Knight was too strong. He would lie if he had to and deal with the consequences later.
But Lannon never got the chance.
How long have you lived here?" asked Cordus.
"In Knights Valley?" said Lannon. "All my life."
"What did you call this place?" said Cordus, raising his eyebrows.
"Knights Valley," said Lannon. "I found the name on a rock."
"Show me this rock," said Cordus.
Taris Warhawk seemed to take sudden interest in the conversation. He moved 
over by them, a silent shadow in the mist.
"It's right over here," said Lannon. He brushed some twigs and leaves off a 
boulder. I found the name under some moss."
The three Knights stared at the engraving with their brows knitted in confusion. 
They glanced at each other and then at Lannon.
"It's just three runes," said Furlus. "This is not Olrog, Birlote, or Norack writing. 
Are you trying to trick us, boy?"
"I don't think he is attempting deception," said Taris. "I believe these runes are 
engraved in the Sacred Text. This must have been a meeting place of the Dark 
Watchmen. The circle of boulders reveals that. Only someone with the Eye of 
Divinity could read this. Lannon must have the gift."
"Then Lannon is the one we've sought," Cordus said, grinning. "Our journey here 
has paid off." Then, glancing at Lannon, he became stern again. "Unless he is lying to 
us."
"It says Knights Valley," said Lannon, baffled.
"The Sacred Text cannot be read by anyone but a Dark Watchman," said Taris, 
"which is one who possesses the Eye of Divinity. To all others it is meaningless--a 
code that cannot be solved. I doubt the boy is lying to us, Cordus. It seems he would 
lack the knowledge to invent such a scheme."
"But his Knightly Essence is weak," Cordus said, turning to the sorcerer. "This is 
very strange. What do you make of it?"
Taris shook his head. "I don't know yet."
"Maybe when strong enough," said Furlus, "the Essence is hidden. One cannot 
judge a man's strengths by appearance alone. Often the greatest power is also the most 
deeply concealed. By looking at me, you'd swear I could crush any man in Silverland 
with my bare hands. Yet once I was hurled to the ground by an old Knight who knew 
how to move his body so that my own weight was turned against me. So you see that 
it is possible to keep amazing powers concealed."
"Regardless," said Cordus, "we must surely make him a Squire. There can be no 
doubt."
"Yes," said Taris. "Lannon Sunshield shall become a Squire."
Lannon stared in disbelief. "Me? A Squire?"
"I shall give you a brief explanation, Lannon," said Cordus, "and it will have to 
do. We came here in search of one who possesses the Eye of Divinity, which is a rare 
magical ability. The Divine Essence--our god and the true King of Dremlock who 
dwells beneath our kingdom--pointed the way to this valley, and we found you. 
Because you have use of the Eye, as your ability to read the Sacred Text proves, you 
will indeed be made a Squire, and you shall learn to master your power so that it may 
serve Dremlock. That is all you need know for now."
"The door is open, Lannon," said Furlus, "and someday, perhaps, a new Book 
shall be crafted in the Deep Forge bearing your name in silver."
"The bearer of the Sunshield Book, " said Taris, "may offer hope to all of 
Silverland. At last the tables may have turned in our favor!"
Cordus frowned. "Do not speak of such things, Taris, until the time is right. And 
as for you, Lannon Sunshield--are you ready for what lies ahead?"
"I feel ready," said Lannon, which was not stretching the truth, but mutilating it. 
Lannon couldn't fathom what he'd done to deserve this, and he had no idea what to 
expect in the days ahead (or just as importantly, what the Knights would expect of 
him). It was a mystery that would only be solved in its own time.
"Well, you are not ready," said Cordus. "So don't go talking nonsense. I can see 
that it's going to take a lot of work to mold you into a Knight. There is a difficult road 
ahead of you. Do you have any idea what it means to be a Divine Knight?"
"I know a little bit," said Lannon, "mainly from a book I have. I know it's your 
duty to defend Silverland against the Goblins, mostly."
"Then you know that is it not always fun or pleasant," said Cordus. "Many die 
fighting for Dremlock, and those who survive must always work hard and have little 
time for rest. Squires have to work just as hard as Knights. And simply because the 
Divine Essence pointed you out to us, and you appear to possess the Eye of Divinity, 
does not mean you bear any special protection other than that granted by your own 
abilities. Death could take you without warning. There are many grim paths that can 
be walked, leading to many terrible ends. Don't ever allow yourself to feel arrogant or 
secure."
"I understand," said Lannon, lowering his gaze.
Cordus patted him on the shoulder. "I just want you to keep a clear head about 
things, so you're better prepared for your new life."
"Then it's time to move on to Knights Welcome," Furlus said eagerly. "After all, 
there are other prospects that should be tested, and truthfully, the Lord Knight and his 
Tower Masters should not be roaming around without a company of guards. If the 
High Council discovered this, it would mean trouble for us."
"We no longer need to go to Knights Welcome," said Cordus. "We've found what 
we came for. Now we must hurry back to Dremlock. I'm not concerned about us 
traveling alone. We can fend for ourselves."
"Yet it is very risky," said Furlus. "If we were ambushed and killed, Dremlock 
would be empty of its three most prominent leaders."
"We're not kings," said Cordus, grimacing. "We're Knights. We can look after 
ourselves. And right now, we need to ride swiftly to Dremlock, and so we shall!"
"But what about a good meal?" said Furlus. "We should at least linger on a bit 
and have dinner with the boy and his folks. What harm could come of that, Cordus? 
We would lose an hour of travel at the most."
"So the real issue arises," said Taris, grinning. "Furlus' fat belly."
"We have plenty of food in our packs," said Cordus. "We can eat when we make 
camp later. As soon as Lannon says his goodbyes, we shall leave immediately for 
Dremlock. I don't want to stay in this valley any longer than we have to, for there is 
still much daylight left for traveling." Cordus whispered something in Furlus' ear. The 
Grey Dwarf nodded, but he still did not look happy.
***
When they got back to Lannon's house, the Lord Knight confronted the boy's 
parents. "Will you allow your son to be made a Squire of my kingdom? If so, he will 
be bound by the Sacred Laws of Dremlock henceforth."
"This is what we always wanted," said Doanan, his face crinkling into lines of 
relief and joy. "This is the greatest gift anyone could grant us!"
Tory pushed past the Knights and hugged her son fiercely. Lannon noticed how 
terribly thin his mother's arms felt, like bones with just a layer of skin stretched over 
them, and he hoped this turn of events would help her regain her appetite.
"I knew they would choose you," Tory whispered, her tears leaving his cheek 
wet. "Your crazy father always believed."
"Our fortunes have changed," said Doanan, hugging Tory for the first time in 
years. "Lannon is going to be a Knight!"
"Not a Knight, necessarily," Cordus cautioned them. "He is a Squire at the 
moment, and he may never actually reach Knighthood. That depends on many 
factors."
"But he's been given his chance!" Doanan howled, swinging Tory around as if all 
of his strength had suddenly returned. He seized Lannon's arm and yanked him close. 
"You have a future now, Lannon. You're going to be a great Knight."
Once the celebrating had died down, Tory asked the Knights, "Will you at least 
stay for dinner? If only to give us more time to say goodbye to Lannon. We won't be 
seeing him again for a long time."
"She has a point," said Furlus, nudging Cordus. The Grey Dwarf had caught scent 
of meat boiling on the stove.
Cordus nodded reluctantly.
Doanan uncorked some ale, and the four men sat in the living room and talked 
until dinner was ready, while Lannon eagerly helped his mother with the preparations. 
Lannon was having the best time of his life, overflowing with excitement, while his 
mother seemed conflicted. One moment tears were in her eyes and the next she was 
laughing at Lannon's poor cooking skills. Lannon's father seemed back to his old 
health, and he talked sensibly, lacking his usual grim tone. When in his right mind, 
Doanan was as practical and likable a man as one could meet, laughing and joking 
with the Knights while he smoked a pipe. They chatted about issues concerning 
Silverland and Dremlock Kingdom.
At last the table was set. It was not a great feast as far as quality went, but there 
was plenty of it. Everyone--including Tory--ate until they were stuffed. Halfway 
through the meal, Lannon's father grew silent, his face darkened by a frown. Tory 
watched him with a pained, knowing look.
Cordus whispered something to Taris, and then said, "Again, I thank you both for 
your kindness, but we have stayed too long."
Doanan's eyes narrowed. "I would like a moment alone with my son before he 
departs with you, Lord Knight. Or is that asking too much?"
"Have your talk," said Cordus, exchanging a quick glance with Taris. "But then 
Lannon must pack his things. We wish to get in at least a little traveling before dark. 
Dremlock awaits our return."
Doanan took Lannon out into the clearing, while the Knights tended to their 
horses. "My son," he said, as he leaned heavily on a cane, "don't worry about me or 
your mother in the days ahead. We'll make do one way or another. But I've always felt 
you were destined to be a Knight of the Divine Order."
Lannon searched his father's eyes. He saw the same old fears, but gleaming 
amongst them was a new light of hope. "Why did you think that, Father?"
Doanan shook his head. "Some things are better left unmentioned for now. This 
world lies in peril. A great darkness reaches out to take us all. But you can defeat it. 
As a Knight of Dremlock, you will do many great deeds. I'm certain of it. Once, many 
years ago, I was shown the truth of things, and it was good in some ways--yet it also 
changed me for the worse. My mind grew richer, but my will weakened. Then the 
illness overcame my body and left me a ruined man."
Lannon sighed. "I don't understand. What truth were you shown?" He always 
hated it when his father spoke cryptically. 
"Someday you'll know," said Doanan. "This world is ancient, Lannon--far older 
than either of us can imagine. A struggle has existed here since the dawn of life, a 
struggle for food. Things eat other things to survive and grow. The darkness would 
devour us as well, to fill its belly and become greater. That's the only way I know how 
to put it."
Doanan's eyes held a crazed, distant look that scared Lannon. The sickness was in 
his mind again. "The things I feel, Lannon, I hope you never know. It makes my flesh 
frail and my blood cold to think of it. The horror that awaits us..."
Suddenly Lannon wasn't sure of anything. Did he even want to go forth and be a 
Knight? Would he have to face the things his father feared so deeply?
Doanan turned away for a moment, and the two stood in silence. When he turned 
back, a shadow seemed to have fallen over him. "Are you just a selfish boy?" his 
father said, his face twisting into a bitter expression. "Was I wrong about you? Maybe 
you're not who I always believed you were, and you should never leave this valley!"
"What are you saying?" Lannon whispered.
"Who will take care of us when you're gone?" said Doanan. "Your mother and I 
have nothing, Lannon. Look at you--agreeing to abandon us so easily. Where is the 
deep reluctance I expected? You'll eat off the fat of the land while we go hungry."
"It's not like that, Father," said Lannon, reaching toward Doanan's arm. Doanan 
flinched away from that touch. "I thought you wanted..." Lannon let his words taper 
off and swallowed. He lowered his gaze.
"Yes, I wanted you to be a Knight," said Doanan. "Because I believed in you, 
Lannon. But now you have given me great reason to doubt."
At that moment, Cordus started toward them, leading his horse. "We must hurry, 
Lannon," the Lord Knight called out sternly. "Pack up what you will, yet try to take 
only what you need. Food and drink are not necessary, as we have plenty of that. Yet 
you should bring a blanket. Now be quick about it!"
Lannon hesitated, gazing at his father again. Lannon knew Doanan was not in his 
right mind, but his father's words still made him feel guilty for leaving. 
But Doanan seemed to have regained his senses to some degree, and he gave 
Lannon a pained smile. "Do as he says, my son. You must listen to Cordus and the 
other Knights, and not to my pathetic words. The Knights will teach you wisdom. I 
didn't mean to sound grim or angry. I'm just tired, and my stomach is unsettled. You 
will have many good things come to you in life. Now go and fulfill your destiny."
Chapter 2: The Bloodlands
Lannon packed quickly. Among the things he took with him were a couple of 
shabby books he'd read many times throughout his childhood called Tales of Kuran 
Darkender and The Truth about Goblins (both by an author named Jace Lancelord). 
Because books were rare, Lannon's father had paid a considerable sum of money for 
them back when he was able to work. Neither novel was in good condition, and The 
Truth about Goblins was so old it was on the verge of falling apart, with some of it 
unreadable. But those two books were Lannon's most prized possessions.
Lannon exchanged goodbyes several times with his parents before he actually got 
going, and just before he rode off with the Knights, he made his mother promise she 
would have Grazzal's stable fixed in the near future. Then he went to the old horse 
and stroked his fur, telling him the good news. Grazzal nibbled at Lannon's fingers, 
his dark eyes full of whatever wisdom a horse was able to acquire during its lifetime.
All things considered, Lannon parted ways with his parents feeling happier than 
he'd ever felt in his life. The Knights promised Lannon they would send a White 
Knight (a specialist in the healing arts) to try to cure his father's illness, which they 
said was an evil, deadly, and potentially infectious disease of magical origin that 
would grow more dangerous as time passed. There was no guarantee of success, since 
Doanan was thoroughly infested with the illness, and even if he was cured, he could 
suffer a relapse at some point. But it was still a better situation than Lannon had 
hoped for. And even if Doanan remained ill, his greatest wish had already been 
granted.
As they rode from the valley, the afternoon sky was grey and featureless, the mist 
lingering in the lowlands. The Four Lakes, which lay just beyond the northern rim of 
the valley, were not visible in the fog. Lannon rode with Taris, for the sorcerer was 
the most slender of the three and had the most room on his horse.  As they passed 
over the hills, the Knights took to arguing about various issues, and Lannon listened 
with amusement as they went back and forth with their debates. It was different than 
when his parents argued. It was a jolly sort of bickering between men who seemed to 
have everything. (This was Lannon's first assumption, but it didn't take him long to 
realize these Knights faced problems that ran deeper than he could have imagined.)
Riding with the Knights of the Divine Order on his way to a new life of training 
as a Squire made Lannon almost giddy with delight. He couldn't wait to reach 
Dremlock Kingdom. Lannon was burning with curiosity to learn more about the skill 
that had made him a Squire. The thought that he was gifted somehow sent excited 
shivers down his spine. But he said nothing, figuring the Knights would tell him about 
his gift when they were ready. 
As the afternoon slipped toward evening, they met many travelers on the road. 
Most were excited to see the famous Knights and stopped to chat, which made 
Lannon sit tall and proud in the saddle. The Knights always spoke politely, but 
Cordus made it clear he had no time for small talk--sometimes simply giving a nod 
and saying "May the Divine Essence warm you, traveler," before galloping on past.
Finally they came to an oaken bridge that crossed the Grey River, beyond which 
another road branched off leading westward. Lannon had never heard of this river 
until the Knights mentioned it, and he asked how it had earned such a name.
"It's as grey as Furlus' skin in some spots," Taris answered. "This river flows 
down from the Goblin Sea, where Foul Brothers go to drown themselves when they're 
old. Their bodies pile up, and the rotting grey matter is washed down this river."
"Foul Brothers?" said Lannon. "You mean the Goblins that look like us but are 
actually stupid? I read about them in my book The Truth About Goblins."
Taris nodded. "No one knows why they end their lives that way, but it makes 
parts of this river very unclean."
As they left the bridge behind, keeping to the North Road, the hills began to give 
way to flatland and farms. Corn and wheat fields were everywhere, and trees were 
sparse. Overhead, hawks, crows, and vultures wheeled about, sometimes swooping 
low for a look at them. Once a Goblin Vulture passed over, probably having strayed 
out of the Bloodlands in search of sheep. It shrieked at them in contempt. Lannon 
caught a glimpse of its humanoid face, which had bulbous black eyes and a mouth 
like a bloody gash. He pressed close to Taris. The only Goblins he had ever seen 
before in real life were Tree Goblins that were too timid to attack anyone but infants 
(and then only if they had absolutely no chance of being discovered). However, the 
Knights barely bothered to glance at the winged monster, and with another 
contemptuous shriek it soared off.
When evening had descended, and the road was becoming lost in the gloom, the 
Knights finally made camp. They chose a spot next to a cornfield, dug a fire pit, and 
settled in for the night. Despite the thick clouds, it was a warm and pleasant summer 
evening for camping in the open. Coyotes howled amid the corn, and bats darted in 
and out of the firelight. Furlus and Cordus smoked pipes and drank some ale, while 
Taris seemed to require nothing beyond a few sips of water. 
As usual, Taris' face was partially lost in shadows beneath his hood. Lannon kept 
staring at the sorcerer, pondering his mysteries. 
Taris took notice of Lannon's scrutiny. "Why do you gaze at me, lad?"
Lannon was caught off guard and could only shrug.
Taris continued to peer at Lannon from beneath his hood, and the boy began to 
squirm. The shadows hung about Taris' bright green eyes, contrasting their gleam, and 
some unseen power seemed to radiate from there. The Birlote’s face, framed by 
flowing silver hair, was strange and sinister to Lannon. Taris had a hook nose and a 
pointed chin. He looked somewhat devilish. Lannon couldn’t see Taris’ ears, but he 
had a feeling they were pointy like his chin.
Taris, who had slipped his boots off to reveal large, muscular feet with sharp 
toenails, kicked Lannon lightly in the chest and knocked him over. "Enough with your 
staring, boy!" he hissed.
Trembling, Lannon sat up and apologized. 
"The lad is just curious," Furlus muttered, laying down to sleep, "that's all."
"I'm sorry," Lannon said again. "I meant no offense."
"You are forgiven," said Taris. "You have a curious mind, which is typically a 
good thing. We three are easy going, and you need not be afraid to speak or act freely 
in our presence." He cleared his throat. "Well, aside from receiving an occasional 
kick, that is. Yet some Knights of Dremlock--especially those of the High Council--
would take great offense if you gazed at them like that. At Dremlock, you must watch 
your manners at all times, Lannon, or the consequences could be dire."
"I'll be careful," said Lannon. Being a Squire was already sounding much 
different than he'd always imagined, and part of him wondered just what he was 
getting himself into. He began to picture rigid Knights glaring at him as he walked the 
halls, and trials and meetings, and many long days and nights ahead. But he felt surely 
it had to be fun in some ways too. Just learning swordplay and sorcery alone would be 
worth putting up with strict Knights and hard work.
Lannon moved back farther from the flames. "Why do we need a fire? It seems 
warm enough tonight."
"It's a watch fire," said Cordus. "We're not that far from the Middle Bloodlands. 
Goblins sometimes creep forth in search of victims. They usually avoid towns and 
farms, but they will sometimes attack travelers camped out in the open. A fire usually 
keeps them away."
"I thought Goblins never attacked anyone outside the Bloodlands," said Lannon. 
"I thought they lacked the courage."
"Who told you such nonsense?" said Cordus. "At one time that may have been 
true. But today Goblins attack people anywhere they choose."
"It's in my book," said Lannon. "The Truth about Goblins, by Jace Lancelord." 
His voice was full of pride.
"Jace Lancelord?" said Taris. "That name is familiar. I remember a Knight named 
Jace Lancelord, back when I was a young Squire, who was booted out of the order for 
dabbling with forbidden magic. He had a talent for writing, too. He must be long dead 
by now--as that was well over a hundred years ago and you Noracks have such short 
life spans."
Lannon shrugged, unsure of what to say.
"Let me see that book," said Cordus, frowning. "Jace Lancelord," he mumbled. 
That was followed by muttered words Lannon couldn't quite hear.
With a trembling hand, Lannon pulled the book from his pack and handed it to 
Cordus. The Lord Knight flipped through some of the pages, sneering at the crude 
drawings and simple paragraphs within. 
"Undoubtedly the ramblings of a failed Knight," said Cordus. "This book was 
probably written strictly for profit and not for the good of humanity. Don't believe a 
word of this, for it could get you killed. Goblins are not to be fooled with. At 
Dremlock you'll be taught the real truth about them."
Shaking his head in disgust, Cordus handed the book back to Lannon. "You 
would be wise to just toss that in the fire." The Lord Knight curled up in his blanket 
and turned his back to Lannon. He soon began to snore.
Lannon gazed gloomily at the flames. His father had been proud of those books, 
and that one was Lannon's favorite. Yet Cordus had acted as if it were less than 
worthless. He suddenly found himself missing his home and his folks. It was easy to 
forget the constant arguments that went on between his parents, now that he was no 
longer at home, and he remembered them in a more pleasant light.
"Don't worry about it, Lannon," said Taris. "Cordus meant no harm. He was 
simply trying to look after your best interests. May I see the book?"
Lannon handed it over.
Taris flipped through the pages and chuckled. "Though showing no date, I can 
tell it is very old. Who knows, there could be something worthwhile here--especially 
if it was written by Jace Lancelord, rest his soul. I remember him as a wise and 
unpredictable man that sometimes looked too deeply into things he might better have 
ignored. It's a fine book, Lannon." He handed it back to the lad. "Just keep it out of 
Cordus' sight."
Smiling, Lannon tucked the book away.
"I'd like to be a sorcerer," said Lannon, speaking on impulse. Taris looked so 
strange and powerful sitting there in the firelight and shadows. He wondered if 
Squires got to practice sorcery very often, or if one needed some sort of special 
qualifications to be taught the ways of magic.
"There are many who would," said Taris, "but it’s not for everyone. You have a 
different skill than mine. That’s what you need to remember. No matter what trials 
you face ahead, stay focused on the one talent that made you a Squire. For that talent--
called the Eye of Divinity--is as great as any."
"What does the power do?" said Lannon.
"The answer to that question is shrouded in mystery," said Taris. "As far as I 
know, it works in three stages--Sight, Body, and something called Dark Wave. Sight 
allows you to gain knowledge of things--even secret or guarded knowledge. Body 
creates physical changes upon a person and their surroundings, which can vary greatly 
depending upon the user. Dark Wave, however, is a mysterious force that few have 
ever gained use of. Little is written about it in the records of Dremlock Kingdom."
"What's the difference between all that and sorcery?" said Lannon.
"There is a key difference," said Taris. "A sorcerer like myself gains power from 
a source that Birlotes--or Tree Dwellers as some call us--refer to as the Webbing. It is 
the magical barrier that protects our world from the Deep Shadow, or the dark realm 
of Tharnin. We mold this Webbing--which is neither evil or good--to fit our needs. 
But the Eye of Divinity unlocks abilities that do not come from the Webbing. In 
ancient times, sorcerers wielded tremendous powers that came from within--like the 
Eye of Divinity. But their knowledge vanished with the ages, their secrets buried 
perhaps forever, and now the definition of a sorcerer is one who either gains neutral 
power from the Webbing, or evil power from the Deep Shadow."
They did not speak for a time, while Taris tended to the fire. Then the sorcerer sat 
down closer to Lannon and spoke in a whisper. "I will tell you something, while we 
have a chance to talk alone, but the others must not know I mentioned it. Dremlock 
Kingdom lies in peril from within. Certain members of the High Council have been 
infested with the Deep Shadow--like your father's illness, only even more sinister in 
nature. That is why we are in such a hurry to get back. Though there are still some on 
the Council who can be trusted, Dremlock is at greater risk while the three of us are 
away."
"Then why did you leave the kingdom?" said Lannon. "Why didn't you send 
someone else?" He was shocked by Taris' words. He would never have imagined that 
Dremlock--which he'd always believed was the noblest place in the world--could be 
tainted by evil.
"Only the three of us," said Taris, "have the ability to identify the Eye of Divinity 
in a subject--or so we thought. You proved us wrong, for had you not read the Sacred 
Text on that boulder, we would have believed you were just an ordinary lad and might 
have chosen to look elsewhere. Regardless, we left our kingdom during a time when it 
gravely needed us there, and we can only hope that disaster has not befallen it. I'm 
telling you this so you'll understand that not everyone at Dremlock can be trusted. 
Take care, Lannon."
"But why do you need the Eye of Divinity?" asked Lannon.
"Be patient, and eventually you will know," said Taris. "For now, you should get 
some sleep. We have a full day of riding ahead of us."
Lannon lay down and pulled his blanket up to his chin, wondering what forces 
existed inside him. Could he be like the sorcerers of old that Taris spoke of? Would 
he ever master the Eye of Divinity and become a powerful Knight, or would he even 
make it to Knighthood? He didn't like that last question, so he forced it from his mind 
and dwelt on the other ones until he slipped off to sleep.
***
They started out in the grey light of dawn. As the day passed, the farms and 
cornfields gave way to soggy lowlands. No one seemed to live out there. Save for a 
few crows and vultures, even animals were scarce. They met no travelers, which 
added to the eerie feeling building in Lannon's mind. Boulders and stunted trees 
dotted the lowlands, and the road became mushy, making the horses snort and stamp 
with displeasure as their hoofs sank in. Adding to the gloomy atmosphere, the sky 
remained a dull block of grey. The travelers could only see a short distance ahead in 
the fog, and the boulders and twisted trees briefly took on sinister shapes as they 
materialized into view.
Lannon wanted to know if these were the Bloodlands. But a somber mood had 
overtaken him, and he just sat in silence like the others. They kept a steady pace all 
day, interrupted only by a couple of brief meals. The air grew damp and chill. A light 
rain began to fall. Lannon huddled under his shabby brown cloak, feeling miserable 
and uneasy. Something wasn't right here. The Knights had barely spoken to each other 
the entire day, and whenever one did speak--usually concerning something brief and 
necessary--the response was a grunt, nod, or shake of the head.
"Why haven't we met anyone?" Lannon finally asked. "It seems like we're the 
only people on this road." 
"We're nearing the Middle Bloodlands," said Cordus. "Most travelers don't follow 
the North Road at this point, because the Bloodlands are the breeding grounds of 
Goblins. The Goblins are spawned by Iracus Trees, which nurse them on blood. There 
is another road, back at the Grey River Bridge, which splits off and leads west. It does 
not pass through the Bloodlands."
"Why didn't we take it then?" said Lannon. Truthfully, he wanted to see the 
infamous Bloodlands and glimpse some of its strange inhabitants. Maybe he would 
even see a Mother Nest, which was a giant Iracus Tree with a swarm of Goblins 
nursing on it. The dangers didn't concern him much, for he rode with the three 
greatest Knights in Dremlock Kingdom and felt that surely nothing could harm him.
"Because the West Road would lead us far out of our way," said Cordus. "We 
would have to travel all the way to the Mountains and then cut back. And if we were 
to go around the Bloodlands the other way--that would take us through the Guardian 
Mountains, which are full of dangers I won't even speak of. The North Road, 
however, will more or less take us straight to Dremlock. We will save many days of 
travel. But fear not, lad. We're more than a match for any fish-eyed Goblin that dares 
try its luck. And there are Rangers who spend their days wandering the road, making 
sure travelers are protected and keeping the monsters at bay. In fact we probably 
won't even come across any of the filthy beasts, save for a few Tree Goblins and 
Vultures."
Lannon breathed a quiet sigh that certainly wasn't one of relief. To Lannon's way 
of thinking--the more Goblins, the merrier the trip would be.
"If you ask me," said Furlus, "the worst thing about the Bloodlands is not the 
danger of Goblin attacks or quick pools--it's the stench. At times it becomes almost 
unbearable, even for an Olrog like myself to handle."
"The Bloodlands have grown more dangerous recently," said Taris. "This road 
was used frequently by travelers only a couple years ago. Rangers were plentiful back 
then. Now many of them have given up on this stretch. They just don't earn enough in 
tips anymore to make it worth the effort."
"Now Knights are the only ones who use it," said Furlus, "save for the truly brave 
and truly stupid--if there's much difference between the two."
"Enough," said Cordus. "We don't want to scare the boy."
"I'm not scared," said Lannon, and then quickly added, "or stupid, either." That 
sent the three Knights into booming laughter. 
That night they camped in a tent. Lannon fell asleep pondering what the 
Bloodlands were going to be like. Occasionally Taris would rise and go tend the small 
watch fire he somehow kept burning outside despite the rain. Later that night, Furlus 
took to snoring so loud the tent seemed to shake, and the others had to keep elbowing 
him in the ribs to shut him up, which made him mutter curses at them. 
The rain continued the next day. They didn't ride far before a weathered sign 
came into view from the fog by the roadside. It announced:
BEWARE! MIDDLE BLOODLANDS AHEAD
GOBLIN BREEDING GROUNDS!
STAY ON THE NORTH ROAD AT ALL TIMES!
"Cover your noses," grumbled Furlus.
At first Lannon thought the Knights were exaggerating about the stench. But it 
crept up on him, building bit by bit, until he seemed to be choking on it. The rain 
grew heavier, the mist thicker. The trail became treacherous, with deep, muddy pools 
and great black roots that made the horses stumble. The trees that reached forth from 
the fog grew larger and more twisted, and shadows seemed to hang like doom amid 
their branches. These were obviously Iracus Trees, but Lannon no longer cared. He 
hung his head low against the steady drizzle, and he kept shifting about in the saddle 
trying to find new positions that would ease the soreness from riding. Once in awhile 
he looked up, imagining that the Firepit Mountains and Dremlock Kingdom would 
meet his gaze, but always there was only more fog, mud, and the evil-looking trees.
Lannon's thoughts dwelt more and more on home. Were his father and mother at 
peace now, or were they still ranting at each over every petty thing imaginable? He 
was nagged by guilt for leaving them to their fate, and he had to keep reminding 
himself that this was something they had wanted for him.
The rain fell harder. The roots that crisscrossed the road became larger and more 
tangled, forcing the travelers to ride at half their normal speed. The Iracus Trees grew 
closer together, almost as a forest in places. No sign of animal life existed here--not 
even Goblins, from what Lannon could see, on the rare occasions when he bothered to 
lift his head for a glance.
Furlus pointed at a particularly vicious tangle of roots, shaking his head. "What's 
wrong with the Rangers these days? They've grown lazy, if you ask me. This road 
used to be decent for traveling, aside from the smell. Now look at it."
"Would you want to spend weeks or months here," said Taris, "doing little but 
killing Goblins and chopping at roots and trees?"
"If that's how I made my living, yes," said Furlus. "And I'd do a better job than 
these lazy Rangers, who don't know what hard work is."
The sorcerer laughed. "What we do is not, at the worst of times, any more 
miserable than what these Rangers put up with. If some grow weary of it and seek 
their fortune elsewhere, who are we to question it?"
The Grey Dwarf glowered at Taris. "You say I know nothing of hard work? Who 
spends the most time with the Squires, seeing to their training? Who runs the Deep 
Forge and keeps the other Olrogs in line? And who hides away in his tower practicing 
his witchcraft, day in and day out? I do most of the work around Dremlock!"
"Enough," said Cordus. "I know we're all miserable, but I don't want to hear this 
nonsense from my Tower Masters. The stench is bad enough. Do my ears need 
assaulting as well?"
As they rounded a curve, from out of the mist rode a woman on a great white 
horse that was heavily laden with packs. She wore battered chain mail and dirty 
clothes. A dagger and sword hung from her belt, and slung across her back was a bow 
and a quiver of arrows. Her long auburn hair was pulled back in a ponytail. Her green 
eyes were stern, her face hard yet beautiful. Crouched next to her was a black wolf, 
watching them intently, ready to spring if the need should arise.
The rider raised her hand and the Knights halted. For a moment she sat in silence, 
studying the Knights and Lannon with a piercing gaze that seemed to leave no detail 
hidden. Then she spoke in an amused voice. "Cordus, Furlus, and Taris. Are you three 
on an important mission? Is this boy a spy of the Blood Legion, or a Goblin in 
disguise?"
"Is this any way to greet Divine Knights, Saranna?" Cordus said.
Saranna smiled. "Maybe you're not as divine as you think, Lord Knight. Right 
now you look as wet and muddy as any tree-hacking Ranger."
Lannon tensed up, wondering if a fight was brewing. Surely this Ranger had to be 
a fool to speak that way to the Knights.
But the Knights only chuckled.
"It's good to see you again, old friend," said Cordus. "But we must make haste 
and have no time for idle talk."
"I have more on my mind than idle talk," said Saranna. "There has been trouble 
up ahead. A wagon was hit and a rich merchant slain. His money and goods were 
stolen."
"And have the ones responsible been brought to justice?" said Cordus.
"They have not," said Saranna. "They've gone deep into the swamps, where even 
Rangers dare not travel."
"Then the thieves are good as dead," said Cordus. "The swamps will devour 
them. We need not concern ourselves with this matter."
"The thieves live," said Saranna. "For they are Goblins."
"Are you saying lowly Goblins stole a merchant's goods?" said Cordus. 
"Everyone knows Goblins lack such intelligence."
"It was done by Goblins," said Saranna. "The tracks are unmistakable. And the 
money chests were ripped open. I found claw marks in the wood. This isn't the first 
time Goblins in this region have done things like this."
The Knights exchanged knowing glances. Then Cordus leaned forward and 
frowned. "The merchant should not have been allowed to travel this road. Only 
Knights must be granted permission to pass here henceforth."
Saranna shrugged. "I lack such authority, Cordus. I'm simply here to protect 
travelers and earn my tips."
"I see," said Cordus. "Regardless, I have a favor to ask of you--that you refrain 
from mentioning this incident to anyone. We wouldn't want to stir up panic all over 
Silverland. That could cause trade to slow or even stop, and could possibly lead to 
hunger or other ills. I know that as a Ranger--and the best of your lot as far as I'm 
concerned--you might feel obligated to inform the people of danger, but in this case 
silence is the wiser path. And I now grant you authority to close this road to all who 
lack written permission signed by my own hand. It seems the North Road has become 
too dangerous to be kept open to public use."
Saranna sighed thoughtfully. "I'll discuss it with the other Rangers. Together, we 
can close this road to the public. Yet folks should be warned of this danger. If Goblins 
are becoming intelligent enough to steal money... Well, I've never heard of such a 
thing. This is huge news, and strange beyond imagining!"
Lannon's gaze passed back and forth from the Ranger to the Knights, and chills 
crept over his flesh. Goblins, growing as intelligent as humans? Lannon had always 
imagined Goblins as being nothing more than fierce, yet mindless, monsters--simple 
animals. If they actually were gaining human-like intelligence, it would make them 
vastly more dangerous, and he suddenly lost all desire to encounter any. 
"We are doing everything possible," said Cordus, "to solve this mystery. You 
have to trust me, and give us time."
She nodded. "For now, I'll wait and do as you wish. Yet if the road is closed to 
the public, how will we make our living? We cannot survive on nothing, Lord 
Knight."
"From this point on," said Cordus, "you will be paid by Dremlock. You will keep 
the road maintained for Knightly use. In exchange you'll receive more silver than you 
ever made from tips, and superior weapons and armor." He took a leather pouch from 
one of his packs and tossed it to her. "And now here's a tip for your dedication to 
defending this road, Saranna."
Furlus and Taris also tossed pouches to her.
The Ranger sat like stone for several moments, while rain drizzled down. Her 
green eyes gazed unblinking into Cordus' blue ones. Lannon watched her in 
fascination. There was something very compelling about Saranna--something rugged 
and unyielding, yet deeply feminine.
Finally Saranna nodded. "I agree to your terms for now. But this means nothing, 
really. As the whole, the Rangers shall decide what must be done. There's more to this 
tale than I have time to tell you here."
Cordus nodded. "The message the Rangers sent us was received, so we know 
what has been taking place out here. But we can spare no Knights at this time. We are 
scattered all over Silverland right now."
"A desperate situation?" said Saranna.
"As desperate," said Cordus, "as any ever encountered by Dremlock. Now if there 
is nothing else, we must move on."
"Farewell," said Saranna, "and ride with caution, for the North Road has become 
black with peril. Four Rangers were killed in the last month alone. The West Drop 
and East Bloat trails are both overrun by Goblins. There's going to be a meeting at the 
Dead Goblin Inn tomorrow night, and then we'll learn the fate of the North Road. No 
one is safe here anymore."
Furlus eyed Saranna with a smug look. He pointed a thick finger at her. "Save 
your warnings, Ranger, for those who need it. We can look after ourselves."
The Ranger's black wolf snarled, eyeing Furlus distrustfully. 
Saranna bowed. "Whatever you say, Tower Master. Good luck to you all. By the 
way, don't think we are ignorant about the so-called Goblin Puzzle, for it's no great 
secret!" With that, she galloped on past them and was swallowed up by the fog. The 
wolf looked them over once more, and then trotted after her.
"The Goblin Puzzle?" said Lannon.
"Don’t concern yourself with such talk, Lannon" said Cordus, his eyes narrowing 
in irritation. "You're going to Dremlock as a Squire. You will train as the other 
Squires do and receive no special favors. The first thing you need to learn is that some 
knowledge is forbidden to you at this time. The Goblin Puzzle is something that falls 
into that category. If you hear someone mention something you don't understand, 
push it out of your mind for now. We'll teach you all you need to learn, when the time 
is right."
"You'll learn about the Goblin Puzzle soon enough," said Taris. 
Cordus shot the sorcerer a warning glance, which Taris blatantly ignored. 
"Probably sooner than you'll want to," Taris finished. 
Lannon fidgeted about restlessly, tormented with the need to ask about the 
Ranger's statements, hoping the Knights would discuss it with each other. But they 
maintained a staunch silence and instead concentrated upon navigating the Greywinds 
through the rain, mist, and mud. 
At one point they passed the remains of the wagon. It lay on its side in pieces. 
Even to Lannon's untrained eye, there was no mistaking the claw marks in the wood. 
Lannon shuddered, pressing close to Taris. For an instant he felt exposed and 
vulnerable. Goblins had torn apart the wagon and killed the merchant. Who knew 
what they might be planning? Maybe they were watching right now from the mist and 
tree branches.
Not far beyond the wagon, they came across the first great Iracus Trees--the 
Mothers. Bloated and twisted, with reddish needles on their low-hanging branches, 
these Goblin-spawning trees had now almost completely taken the place of the others. 
Their bark was grey and sickly looking, and their roots were huge, rising up in arches 
and disappearing again beneath the mud. The Rangers had hacked down any of the 
trees that dared grow too close to the road, and they lay like giant, pale skeletons in 
the fog. The stench clung to the travelers' lungs and throats with the thickness of 
molasses, fixing their faces in tense masks as they struggled to breathe.
"Where will we sleep tonight?" asked Lannon.
"At the Dead Goblin Inn," said Furlus, with a touch of pride in his voice. "We can 
rest the Greywinds, take a break from the stench, and get good food. It's for Rangers, 
mostly. Yet the inn actually does well for business, since it's the only one along this 
stretch. It's run by an Olrog."
"The Mother Trees are thinning out," said Cordus. "The Dead Goblin lies just 
ahead. I can almost smell the incense from here." Even as he finished speaking, the 
Mothers gave way to the lesser Iracus Trees again, with the road becoming mostly 
free of roots. The rain suddenly burst into a downpour, and the Knights drove their 
horses into a gallop. As they passed down a long, straight stretch of the trail, a sign 
faded into view from the fog that said: 
DEAD GOBLIN INN
CLEAN ROOMS, GOOD FOOD,
AND BEST OF ALL,
NO STENCH!
The inn was set back a bit from the road, almost obscured by the mist. It was 
three stories high and made mostly of huge logs. The Knights took the Greywinds 
behind to a stable, where they surrendered them to a young Ranger whom they tipped 
generously, and then entered the inn.
The Dead Goblin was an appropriate name for it. Behind the bar was mounted the 
boulder-sized head of a Cave Troll, which was the main attraction. But there were 
also many smaller dead, stuffed Goblins within--such as Vultures, Tree Goblins, and a 
Foul Brother standing in one corner, its sad, dumb eyes gazing into nothingness and 
its hands raised as if to ward off the attack that had felled it. Thick stalks of incense 
burned in every corner, filling the inn with a sweet aroma that almost, but not quite, 
blocked out the stench of the Bloodlands.
Lannon stared in fascination at the trophies. Every corner he glanced at seemed to 
contain something interesting, and his eyes could not take in all the sights with just 
one pass, or even ten. Mingled with the Goblins were wooden carvings, twisted Iracus 
Roots that had sinister shapes, and paintings of famous Rangers of the past.
Several Rangers sat at tables, talking over dinner and drinks. None of them 
greeted the Knights. Their faces were grim, and they muttered quiet words to each 
other. A dark tension hung about the place. The Olrog innkeeper, whom one of the 
Knights addressed as Sambar, was a bit shorter than Furlus, and his huge beard and 
flowing hair were a darker shade of grey--almost black. Ale was poured for Furlus 
and Cordus, and milk for Lannon. Taris drank water. 
"There was some trouble earlier this day," Sambar said grimly. 
"We've heard," said Cordus, sighing.
"More and more attacks!" said Sambar. "Goblins showing intelligence--even 
organizing into groups. What in Tharnin is going on, Cordus?"
"I wish I could say for sure," said Cordus. 
"I fear the legends of old," said Sambar. "The Deep Shadow was not destroyed in 
the ancient war. All the Crimson Flamestone did was drive the Barloak demons back 
to Tharnin. The Shadow itself still exists. Could it be that another great assault is soon 
to be waged upon our world?"
Lannon wasn't sure what Sambar was referring to, since he didn't know much 
about the history of the land. But he wanted to hear more, for he felt a sudden, 
overpowering anxiety grip him at Sambar's words.
Cordus shook his head slowly. "There are many mysteries. But real history is 
fused with myth. I think the greatest peril to our world lies right here in Silverland, as 
it has for centuries. Beyond that, who knows?"
Sambar sighed. "Yet as far as Silverland goes, I fear the North Road is soon to 
fall. There are barely enough Rangers left to maintain it. I don't know if I can keep the 
inn open much longer. If the Dead Goblin closes, that's pretty much the end of the 
North Road. The Rangers need a place to sleep, to escape the stench, and so do 
travelers."
"It's a matter of money, then?" said Cordus.
Sambar stroked his beard. "It certainly is."
Cordus nodded. "Dremlock Kingdom will make a contribution to the Dead 
Goblin Inn--money and supplies as needed."
"That solves half the problem," said Sambar. "But what about the attacks? 
Rangers are getting killed defending a road few use anymore."
"You need better weapons and armor," said Cordus, "which will be supplied. And 
as soon as any Knights can be spared, I will send them down this way."
Sambar nodded. "But we need help in a hurry, Cordus, or it's going to be too late. 
Only the most rugged Rangers remain, and they're growing bitter toward Dremlock 
Kingdom." Sambar added in a whisper, "Look at their faces."
The travelers turned. The Rangers were staring hard at Cordus, anger in their 
eyes. A couple of them shook their heads in disgust.
"As soon as I reach Dremlock," said Cordus, turning back to Sambar, "assistance, 
with the exception of Knights, will be sent immediately. The North Road is vital to 
Dremlock Kingdom, as it gives us a direct route to the southern cities."
"But not so vital you can spare a few Knights?" questioned Sambar.
"We have none to spare," Cordus repeated wearily. "Do not doubt my words, 
innkeeper. If I could spare even a single one to help defend the road, I would do so. 
But right now it's just not possible. Now we would like some dinner."
Furlus licked his lips. "You know what I want, Sambar."
Sambar nodded. "Red meat, of course. If you weren't so ugly, Furlus, I'd mistake 
you for an Olrog."
Furlus chuckled. "Furlus Goblincrusher is everything an Olrog should be, 
Sambar. I've got blood like the fire pools of the deep, and skin like mountain rock."
"And the face of a mountain goat," said Sambar.
That statement brought on laughter from everyone but the Rangers, who 
continued to glare at Cordus with deep contempt.
Lannon kept staring a sword that was made of some type of animal bones that 
hung behind the bar. The sword was elaborately constructed, the bones fitted neatly 
together to form an elegant and fierce-looking weapon.
"That is a real dragon-bone sword, my young friend," said Sambar, nodding to 
Lannon. "It's for sale, at thirty silver pieces. Kingdom pieces, that is."
Furlus Goblincrusher chuckled. "Thirty kingdom pieces, for a sword made of 
bones? Waste of good coin, if you ask me."
"Dragon bone is quite rare," said Sambar. "And stronger and sharper than steel. 
And much lighter too."
"I didn't think real dragons existed," said Lannon.  "I read in my book, The Truth 
about Goblins, that dragons are just winged Goblins, like the Vultures."
"Your book spoke true," said Sambar. "Dragons are a type of rare winged Goblin. 
The ones spoken of in legend probably never existed. But modern dragons are a very 
special sort of Goblin, possessing great power. No man has ever slain one, or even 
seen one die, but their bones can be found in the cliffs beyond the West Drop. They're 
not easy to obtain, and very difficult to forge into bladed weapons."
"And those bones are better left to rot," said Furlus. "The best weapons and armor 
are made from Glaetherin, the strongest metal in existence."
Sambar nodded. "That may be true, but dragon bone is stout stuff nonetheless, 
and only Divine Knights are permitted to wield Glaetherin. Even you must admit, 
Furlus, that dragon bone is a worthy material."
Lannon's eyes were fixed on the magnificent sword. "I wish I had enough silver. I 
would definitely buy it."
"You're better off with weapons and armor forged in our kingdom," said Cordus, 
waving in a dismissive gesture. "That sword is no doubt a fine weapon, but it is vastly 
over priced. Sambar has been trying to sell that thing for years."
"The boy clearly wants the sword," mumbled Sambar. "And goodness knows I 
could use the money. This is a chance to help me out and help keep the Dead Goblin 
Inn open for business."
"But it looks exactly like the Kingdom Sword of Dremlock," said Cordus, 
frowning. "Some might mistake it for that and believe Lannon has been given special 
permission to wield it. This could cause resentment."
"It is better than the Kingdom Sword," said Sambar, "which everyone knows is a 
fake. Your Kingdom Sword is actually made of Cave Troll bones rather than Dragon 
bones."
Furlus chuckled. "Yes, it's true. Our legendary Kingdom Sword is nothing but old 
Troll bones carved to look like those of a Dragon. It's the worst kept secret in 
Dremlock, yet always a topic for debate."
"But my sword is the real thing," said Sambar. "I can prove it." He took down the 
sword and handed it to Furlus. "See if you can break it."
Furlus grunted as he sought to snap it two, his huge muscles bulging from the 
strain. Finally he handed it back to Sambar. "Yes, innkeeper, it is Dragon bone. But it 
is still second rate compared to Glaetherin."
"It is slightly different than the Kingdom Sword," said Taris. "As you can see, 
this sword has a red sash tied to it, whereas the Kingdom Sword is adorned with a 
green sash. A minor difference, but still a difference."
"And there you have it," said Sambar. "The sashes are a different color and no 
one could possibly confuse them. The boy should have this sword."
"Do you really want the sword, Lannon?" said Taris. "You would not be allowed 
to carry it until you pass the Color Trials and become a true Squire. And you must 
never try to claim that it's the Kingdom Sword. You'll have to leave the red sash 
fastened to it at all times."
"Yes!" Lannon said excitedly. "I would love to have it."
"I'll purchase it for you," said Taris. "You can carry it until we reach Dremlock, 
and then you must leave it my care until after the Color Trials." He nodded to Sambar. 
"Consider this an additional contribution for your dedication to keeping the Dead 
Goblin Inn open."
Furlus shook his head. "It's a fine enough weapon, but not worth nearly that many 
kingdom pieces."
Cordus shrugged. "It's Taris' money, and he may do what he chooses with it. And 
if it helps Sambar out, it's for a good cause."
Taris paid the innkeeper, and Sambar sheathed the sword and handed it to the 
sorcerer. Taris then presented the sword to Lannon. "May this serve you well," he 
said, eyeing Lannon sternly from beneath his hood. "Over time, a dragon-bone 
sword--just as with any sword made of Goblin bone--will bond with its owner, and in 
spite of what Furlus believes, it will serve you well enough. This is my gift to the 
savior of Dremlock Kingdom."
Cordus slammed his fist down on the bar. "Taris! That's enough of that talk. The 
boy hasn't even passed the Color Trials yet."
"Lannon may fail the Trials," said Furlus. "What then of the sword?"
"I will speak no more of it," said Taris, turning away.
Cordus patted Lannon on the back. "It's a good sword, and I'm sure you'll do fine 
in the Color Trials."
The sword felt light and perfectly balanced in Lannon's grasp. He could barely 
bring himself to believe that Taris had just given it to him.
Sambar started to open his mouth as if to say something, but then he closed it 
again and shrugged. "More ale?"
That night the travelers bathed themselves and slept in clean rooms. Lannon's 
belly was full of good food and drink, he had a new sword, and Dremlock Kingdom 
was growing ever closer. He should have been content. Yet even upstairs, behind 
locked doors, he could feel the anger of the men and women below. It seemed to fill 
the air, contrasting the sweet aroma of the incense and merging with the faint stench 
of the Bloodlands, which could never be completely concealed here. And deep 
uncertainty weighed down on him, making him restless. Just what was expected of 
him in the days ahead? How much were Knights concealing from him, and ultimately, 
what was the risk? His deepest fears whispered to him in his father's voice that death 
wasn't the worst fate one could encounter.
Chapter 3:  Goblins, Hills, and Elder Lands
After a quick yet delicious breakfast, they set out from the Dead Goblin. The rain 
had slacked off, but the mist remained heavy. The Iracus Trees thickened, and the 
Mothers appeared again, their arching roots crisscrossing the road. The Knights drove 
the Greywinds as fast as they dared.
At one point Furlus' horse stumbled and went down, dumping him headfirst into 
the mud. Lannon started to laugh, but when he saw the look on Furlus' face, he 
strangled it. Bellowing curses, Furlus lunged up, his beard dripping filth and his dark 
eyes blazing with fury. He wiped his beard with his sleeve, grabbed the root that had 
felled his horse, and tore it two. Dark blood poured out from the severed ends. The 
angry Tower Master cast the ends aside.
"I've had enough of this, Cordus!" Furlus' brow was knotted with rage. "We leave 
a comfortable inn and ride like Tharnin through this slop--for no good reason! We 
could have stayed another night and waited for better weather."
Cordus sighed. "Do you want to go back? You saw the way the Rangers regarded 
us. I don't know about you, but I have no wish to spend another night at that inn. And, 
considering what we're facing, we dare not waste even a single day. Now get on your 
horse and ride with us, or go stay with the Rangers. But I'll move on and tonight sleep 
amongst the Northern Hills where I won't have a bunch of contemptuous people 
breathing down my neck."
Furlus nodded, his face red with embarrassment. "Since you put it that way, I'll 
keep quiet." He patted his horse and then swung up into the saddle.
"Where's the Scribe," Taris said, smiling. "We need to record this wondrous 
moment. Furlus Goblincrusher admitting he is wrong!"
"I admitted nothing, oh dark one," said Furlus, wringing out his beard. "I simply 
said I'd keep quiet for now. Let's just concentrate on getting through this giant dung 
pit. I've had too much open sky above me on this journey, and now these filthy 
Bloodlands are getting to me. I guess I just need to get back to the silver mines and 
the Deep Forge."
"Of course," said Taris. "We all know how lovely the mines are."
"A Tree Dweller like you wouldn't understand," mumbled Furlus.
The stench and misery continued throughout the day. The riders became 
distracted, paying little heed to their surroundings. They simply pushed onward as the 
hours slipped by. They ate a quick lunch of dry foods, without dismounting, and rode 
without pause until dinner. At dinner, they seated themselves on a log and forced 
down some leftovers from the inn.
When they set off again, the Iracus Trees formed a forest, while the mist became 
almost like a solid wall. They were forced to go slower than ever. Twice, Taris 
stopped his horse and sat still, gazing off into the fog as if straining to see or hear 
something. But when asked about it by Cordus, he simply shook his head and they 
continued on. Because the sun was lost from view, it was difficult to tell what time of 
day it was, but they felt it was nearing evening. 
When Taris stopped for the third time, the sorcerer spoke. "I think Goblins are 
watching us. I can't tell how many, or their kind."
"How long have they been following?" Cordus asked.
"I'm not sure."
Furlus readied his axe. "Something to interrupt the boredom, I guess."
"Let us hope they're not Goblin Lords," said Cordus, drawing his broadsword. 
"That's the last thing we need right now."
"Not likely," said Taris. "No Goblin Lord has ever been spotted near the Middle 
Bloodlands. But anything is possible, I suppose."
Cordus shook his head. "Before breakfast, Sambar described, for me alone, 
Goblins that resembled Lords. A Ranger spotted them on the road. I fear they might 
be planning to finish us off before we reach Dremlock."
"I'll bet they're waiting for us to pass through the North Gate," said Furlus. "Then 
they will try to ambush us."
"You should have told us earlier," said Taris, shooting Cordus an angry glance. 
"Why did you wait?"
"I didn't want to scare the boy," said Cordus.
"But if these are indeed Goblin Lords we're dealing with," said Taris, "then we 
should have been watching for them."
"We were staying alert, regardless," said Cordus. "I intended to tell you, but the 
hours slipped past quickly."
Lannon glanced about, but all he could see was mist. His hands clenched Taris' 
cloak so hard his fingers ached. He thought he could feel yellow eyes peering out at 
him, teeth and claws ready to rip the flesh from his bones like they had done to the 
merchant. He began to tremble, suddenly wishing he were safely back in Knights 
Valley or at Dremlock Kingdom--anywhere but in the Bloodlands.
"Calm yourself, Lannon," Taris said to him. "We will protect you."
"Draw your sword, Lannon," Cordus commanded.
"What?" said Lannon. "You mean...?"
"You ride with Knights," said Cordus. "You are expected to fight with us if need 
be. You wanted the sword, and now it is yours. Thus, we no longer protect an 
unarmed lad. Now, draw your sword!"
With a trembling hand, Lannon drew the bone sword from the sheath at his belt. 
It felt cumbersome and useless in his grasp. He had no desire to test his skill against 
the Goblins.
Cordus nodded to him. "You will fight only when ordered to, however. Is that 
understood?"
"It is definitely understood," said Lannon, breathing a sigh of relief.
The Knights stared off into the mist, and exchanged concerned glances. Grim 
tension hung between them. Even the horses seemed to feel it, for they whinnied 
nervously. 
The land crept upward and then flattened. The mist thinned, revealing two huge 
boulders on either side of the road. Smaller boulders lay just beyond them, barely 
visible in the fog. Thick Iracus roots clung to the two big rocks, hanging off them like 
ragged spider webs, their strands disappearing into the mist.
"The North Gate," Cordus said quietly. "The Hills lie not far beyond. This is 
where the Goblins will probably make their attack."
Taris rode up alongside him. "I sense the Goblins are close." The sorcerer pulled 
a stone dagger from his cloak, and it erupted into greenish flames.
Just then, a tall figure walked from the mist. It was a Foul Brother--yet certainly 
not one of normal intelligence (which for a Foul Brother was virtually no intelligence 
at all). It wore a black cloak and carried a twisted wooden staff. It was powerfully 
built, with hands and feet that were slightly larger than those of a human, and its head 
was bald, with deep lines in its forehead. Its dark eyes--usually sad and dumb on these 
creatures--were narrowed with focus. A single red rune was painted on its forehead.
Lurking behind it were two dark, wolf-like Goblins with tails and claws, their 
green eyes shining wickedly. They held back, standing on their crooked hind legs, just 
barely visible in the fog. The humanoid Goblin walked between the two great 
boulders and stood facing them in the road. It raised the staff menacingly.
"A Lord!" Taris whispered. 
Cordus held forth his broadsword. The blade gleamed brightly--almost white--as 
if charged with pale energy.
"Stand aside," Cordus ordered the Goblin Lord. "You dare block the path of 
Divine Knights? We are on important business."
The Goblin snorted with laughter. A whisper curled out from it like icy fingers 
that seemed to creep over their flesh, causing chills. The horses shifted about uneasily, 
but held their ground. Lannon pressed closer to Taris. His heartbeat was pounding 
hard in his ears.
"I am simply a messenger sent to warn you," the Goblin Lord said. "Soon 
Dremlock Kingdom will fall. The ways of the past will no longer prevail against us. 
Leave Silverland while you still can."
Furlus drove his horse forward, scowling, but Cordus stopped him with a motion 
of his hand. "What is this nonsense you talk?" said Cordus. "Do you really think your 
words make any difference? Your fate is sealed in steel and blood. Silverland will 
soon be free of your evil."
"I do not fear you," the Goblin Lord hissed. "You cannot slay me. I alone seal 
your fate and that of Dremlock Kingdom. Give up, Lord Knight, while you still have 
the chance. There is no shame in it."
"Give up?" Cordus' blue eyes burned with fury. "Defend yourself, Goblin, for I 
now take your filthy head!" With that, Cordus' slapped his horse on the neck. The 
Greywind steadied itself, snorting, and then charged.
The two wolf-like creatures slipped away into the mist.
The Goblin Lord hurled its staff at Cordus. The twisted piece of wood smoldered 
with dark flames as it tumbled towards the Lord Knight.
Cordus cleaved the staff in two, causing it to explode in a shower of purple 
sparks and burning fragments, most of which glanced off Cordus' magnificent silver 
breastplate. Unharmed, Cordus calmly brushed coals from his beard. The Goblin 
turned to flee.
Cordus' gleaming blade lashed out and sliced off the Goblin Lord's head. The 
body slumped to the ground, the head rolling off into the mist.
"Let us ride swiftly from this place," said Cordus. "Do not look back, Lannon."
But as they started off, Lannon's curiosity got the best of him. He and Taris rode 
at the rear, with Cordus in the lead, and so he chanced a look behind him. Sprouting 
from the neck of the dead Goblin were dark tendrils. They slithered across the ground 
towards something in the fog. Quickly Lannon turned away, his face pale.
From out of the mist behind them came evil laughter.
***
"Why didn't they try to finish us off?" Taris asked, as the horses again slowed to a 
trot. "That entire affair seemed pointless."
"The Goblin Lord and his Wolves were sent to intimidate me," said Cordus. "If I 
falter, so will Dremlock Kingdom. That is what our enemies believe. We were 
expecting an attack, so they surprised us with a warning." He nodded toward Lannon. 
"If they knew the true nature of this mission, they would surely have thrown all their 
might against us. Obviously, some secrets remain hidden to our foes."
"But how did they know we were on the North Road?" said Taris.
"They watch us," said Cordus, "with methods we cannot yet imagine. From the 
moment we left Dremlock, they must have planned that encounter at the North Gate. 
They suspect we’re on a vital mission, the three Tower Masters riding alone from 
Dremlock when our kingdom is in peril. Yet what have they learned? Only that we 
ride with a boy."
Gazing into the fog, Taris said nothing
"We should not speak of this," said Cordus, "when the lad is with us. Lannon, 
you shall not mention a word of this to anyone. If you do, there may be grim 
consequences that even I cannot foresee. Being exiled from the kingdom would 
certainly be one of those consequences." The Lord Knight stared hard at Lannon, his 
eyes burning deep into the boy, demanding total obedience.
"I won't tell anyone," said Lannon, and he meant it with all his heart. Emotions 
swirled through his mind--terror over the future, awe of the Knightly power he had 
just witnessed, and a lingering gloom from the Goblin Lord's aura. He felt he could 
understand his father's illness better now, after what he had encountered in the 
Bloodlands. The darkness was real, and it was hungry--just like his father had said. 
He had felt the very surface of it, and underneath lay things he dared not try to 
imagine. 
Lannon realized his father wasn't weak willed at all. He was a strong man to have 
stared into the very heart of darkness and still kept some measure of his sanity. Even 
after many years of existing inside him, clawing at his father's body and mind, the 
shadows had not yet consumed him. 
As evening settled in, the Middle Bloodlands began to give way to hill country. 
The hills were huge, the road winding between them and sometimes creeping over 
them. The Iracus Trees surrendered to towering pines, which grew sparsely and were 
straight, tall, and noble compared to the twisted Goblin trees. The roots vanished from 
the trail (save for an occasional knotty pine root), and the stench slipped away, 
leaving only fresh air. The weather had cleared some, and from the hilltops they could 
see the Firepit Mountains beyond the forests, hills, and misty valleys. 
Crumbling stone ruins stood on some of the hills. Most resembled the remains of 
keeps and fortresses, while others were little more than shapeless masses of rubble. 
"These are the Elder Lands," Cordus told Lannon. "Some of the most ancient 
kingdoms on our continent of Gallamerth existed here. The names and origins of 
many have been forgotten, for they were here before the Birlotes came--before the 
White Guardian itself came from the Great Light above Stormy Mountain to teach the 
races the ways of peace." Cordus pointed to ruins on a particularly tall hill. "Serenlock 
Castle lies there, Lannon. That is where we'll camp this night." 
Lannon studied the ruins closely. They didn't look like they formed a castle--just 
a bunch of boulders in a big heap on the hilltop.
"Doesn't look like much from here, does it?" said Cordus. "But that castle was 
once the main rival of Dremlock Kingdom. King Ordamer Kessing of Bellis 
constructed it for the sole purpose of bringing down Dremlock. Obviously, it failed."
"A poor location compared to Dremlock," grunted Furlus.
"Yes," said Cordus, "But Serenlock was defended on all sides by a massive wall. 
When the castle fell, the wall was torn apart and the blocks moved to Dremlock to 
form parts of the West and North towers."
"Why did Dremlock allow Serenlock Castle to be built?" asked Lannon. "Why 
didn't the Knights just come over here and stop it?"
"A good question, Lannon," said Taris. "But we weren't at war with Bellis during 
that time. We knew why Serenlock was being built, but Dremlock refused to strike the 
first blow. Our nobility would not permit it."
They guided their horses up the great hill and into the ruins. The Greywinds, 
despite being sure-footed animals, slipped now and then and panted from the effort of 
climbing such a steep slope. Lannon clung tight to Taris, feeling like they were in 
danger of tumbling back down. Much of Serenlock Castle had collapsed on itself and 
sank into the hill, but some of it was still well preserved.
As they passed upward between the boulders, Lannon made out familiar shapes 
like parts of stairs, floors, and walls. Cordus seemed to know exactly where he was 
going, leading them around and even underneath great obstacles, until at last they 
emerged onto a wide slab on the hilltop. The slab must have been a courtroom floor or 
something of the like. Here, between four towering statues of Knights, they stopped to 
make camp, with open sky above them.
Cordus built a fire inside a circle of small stones between the four statues. The 
Knights gave their horses feed bags and then gathered around, unfolding blankets. 
Furlus had stashed away a leg of lamb from the Dead Goblin, and now he brought it 
forth to gnaw on, while Cordus smoked a pipe. As usual, Taris seemed to crave little 
beyond his required meals, which he had already eaten, and he sat motionless.
Cordus nodded towards the statues. "These represent the Four Lords of Serenlock 
Castle, Lannon."
The towering statues were made of marble, and depicted men bearing swords, 
axes, and heavy armor. They were crumbling and mossy, yet still vivid. One stood out 
from the others due to the insane look in his eyes. His wild hair flowed long, and in 
one hand he held an Olrog head, which he grasped by its beard. Somehow this was the 
most lifelike of the statues, and the sight of it made Lannon's heart race. The crazed 
eyes seemed to burn into his soul. Lannon could not look upon this statue for long. He 
turned away, wishing he had never set eyes on it but needing to know more about it.
Cordus smiled at him. "Each of these great Knights has a magnificent tale behind 
him. But the most intriguing of all--certainly the most tragic--is the story of Tenneth 
Bard, the Black Knight. You will learn much of the history of Dremlock, Silverland, 
and even our continent of Gallamerth as you advance into Knighthood."
"I want to know about Tenneth Bard right now," said Lannon. A deep sadness 
wrenched at his heart, underneath which lay a darkness spawned by something he 
dared not peer into.
Cordus frowned and shook his head. "Some things are better left untold, for the 
time being. I don't wish to burden you with too much knowledge until you are ready 
for it. This tale can wait until another time."
"Okay," said Lannon, getting under his quilt. He pulled it over his head, trying to 
block the statue from both eye and mind. For some reason, he needed to hear the story 
of Tenneth Bard, though he doubted it would offer him any comfort. Yet sometimes 
not knowing was the worst feeling of all.
An hour passed by. Cordus lay down to sleep, and soon started to snore. Furlus 
finished gnawing the meat from the bone and also lay down. Taris alone sat by the 
fire, and he beckoned Lannon over. "Come, I will tell a bit of the tale you've been 
waiting to hear. No harm will come of it." 
Lannon eagerly left his blanket and sat down across from Taris.
"Tenneth Bard was once an exceptionally talented Knight of Dremlock," said 
Taris. "But he was expelled from the Order for violating the Sacred Laws. He became 
a pathetic drunkard, wasting his life away, until King Ordamer of Bellis called upon 
his services. He joined with the Knights of Serenlock in their attempt to destroy the 
Divine Order. But his former failure had changed him. He was no longer sane or 
stable. The darkness was in his heart, and drove him deeper and deeper into madness. 
When Serenlock was defeated, Tenneth Bard escaped and became a Black Knight--
sworn to topple Dremlock."
"Why was Tenneth Bard expelled from Dremlock?" asked Lannon, hoping to 
avoid the same fate. The Sacred Laws sounded quite rigid.
"The sad thing is that it was all quite needless," said Taris. "Tenneth Bard made a 
mistake that he probably should not have been banished over. Yet time and again, 
great Knights have been cast from the Divine Order for petty violations of the Sacred 
Laws. And time and again, it has come back to haunt Dremlock."
"Was Tenneth Bard ever killed by anyone?" said Lannon.
"After Serenlock was defeated," said Taris, "Tenneth Bard formed a band of 
Black Knights called the Blood Legion. When the Divine Knights finally hunted 
down and broke up his clan--temporarily, mind you, for the Blood Legion exists to 
this day--he escaped into the Northern Bloodlands and was never seen again. Those 
are the most dangerous Bloodlands of all, filled with horrors that defy the 
imagination, and it has always been assumed that he perished out there."
"Why were these statues left standing?" said Lannon.
"As a tribute to our victory," said Taris,  "and a warning to future plotters against 
Dremlock."
"I feel like the statue of Tenneth Bard is watching me," said Lannon. "He 
certainly does look insane." He folded his arms across his chest and shivered.
"I think there was something evil about Tenneth Bard," Taris said, "that went 
beyond his insanity. I believe he was in league with dark and powerful forces--
perhaps the Deep Shadow itself, which is where all foul sorcery comes from. Even to 
this day, we may not fully realize what damage he did to Dremlock Kingdom."
Suddenly Lannon felt guilty. He glanced at Cordus, who was still snoring 
peacefully under his quilt. "Maybe I shouldn't know these things," he whispered. 
"Cordus thought I should wait to hear of it." 
"These are histories you would learn regardless," said Taris. "You're not just a lad 
who happens to be traveling with us, Lannon. You are soon to be--officially--a Squire 
of Dremlock Kingdom, and as such, you will learn many things about the past. Now 
try to get some rest. We still have much traveling to do."
Lannon curled up in his blanket and tried to sleep. For half the night he lay 
awake, his heart troubled by things he could not understand, feeling Tenneth Bard's 
crazed eyes upon his soul. Finally he slipped into dark dreams of warfare and 
bloodlust. He felt the weight of centuries bearing down on him, a shifting tide of 
glorious victories and renowned men and women--but also of crushed dreams, failed 
honor, and fallen Knights. Shadows clashed amid the hills and mountains, while 
Goblins crept out from the gloom of the bloated Mothers to make war on life itself. 
The dreams lasted the entire night, and Lannon could not escape them until the grey 
dawn touched his eyelids.
***
The Knights seemed in good spirits the next day. As they rode through the 
Northern Hills, they talked of jolly things that Lannon listened to with interest for a 
while and then grew bored with. They spoke of battles past and humorous affairs, of 
failed Knights and talented ones, the state of the land (with no references to Goblins), 
and the relationships of the Birlotes, Noracks, and Olrogs. They also talked of things 
Lannon found boring, like trade and taxation and the value of money. Soon Lannon's 
mind began to stray from their conversations to thoughts of his folks, the journey, and 
what awaited him at Dremlock.
By afternoon they had reached the forest lands of Hethos, where trees stood 
reaching heights of two hundred feet or more and had trunks as wide as cabins. The 
clouds had broken this day, and the sun streamed down amid the furry pine branches, 
scattering mottled patches of light across the forest floor. The mist was clearing up. 
Hethos consisted of vast stretches of woodlands interrupted briefly now and then by 
farms, hill country, and grasslands. 
They stayed the night in a little town called Fargun's Vale that was full of hunters 
and trappers. It was a rough place, but had a fancy inn called the Divine Alehouse, 
which was built exclusively for Knights and Rangers. Yet even in this thick-walled 
inn, which lay on the very edge of town, the travelers could hear brawls and shouts 
throughout the night.
The next morning, they set off with the shadows still thick about the forest. The 
wooded hills and valleys continued on, and the ride there was pleasant, the day's 
warmth held in check by cool breezes. The air was fresh and sweet in their lungs, and 
the forest was rich with animal life--a welcome change from Bloodlands. They took 
long breaks for lunch and dinner, resting on soft pine needles, and their spirits were 
high.
By late afternoon they had reached the muddy banks of the Sorgrot River, which 
flowed down from the Firepit Mountains. The Firepit range towered above them, 
stretching from east to west as far as they could see. The forest climbed high into the 
peaks, a carpet of green clinging to the mountainsides.
Lannon got his first glimpse of the great stone wall that protected Dremlock 
Kingdom, which sat on a plateau about a quarter of the way up Darkender Mountain 
(as the Knights called the great peak). Lannon could see a few buildings here and 
there on plateaus leading up to where Dremlock sat.
The travelers followed the road, winding upward alongside the river. The 
shadows of evening descended swiftly amid the pines and boulders, with blazing stars 
visible in the open spaces between the boughs. Wolves howled amongst the forests 
and rocky ledges, drawing threateningly close at times. The Greywinds snorted 
contemptuously at the wolf howls and trotted with their heads held high. These 
warhorses, seldom afraid of anything, were used to the wolves and did not fear them.
The Knights lit lanterns, and soon the shadows around their sphere of light 
became too thick to peer into. Yet still they followed the road on its steady climb 
upward into the mountains. Gradually the river curved away, the roar of rushing water 
growing ever fainter. 
At last they reached a wooded plateau where a town called Hollow Deep sat, 
which consisted of several shops and a place called Knights Lore Inn. "We shall sleep 
here tonight," Cordus said. "And early tomorrow ride on to Dremlock."
Unlike the Dead Goblin Inn or the Alehouse in Fargun's Vale, the stay at Knights 
Lore Inn was a jolly affair. The folks inside greeted the travelers with laughter and 
cheers. They were given delicious food, baths, and the best rooms in the place. 
Immediately after Lannon's meal and bath, Cordus told him to go to bed while the 
Knights engaged in a bit of merrymaking downstairs. The lad was disappointed, for 
many strange characters inhabited this place--some who looked Knightly, as well as 
some Ranger types, and a few mysterious fellows who preferred to sit in the shadowy 
corners. The atmosphere was warm, pleasant, and exciting. A richly dressed Bard 
sang songs of Knightly battles and victories.
As Lannon lay down to sleep, he listened to the sounds below, wishing he were 
part of the merriment. Yet soon his thoughts turned to other matters. Dremlock 
Kingdom was close--somewhere up above him on the mountainside--and in the 
morning he would climb to that legendary place to begin his new life. He kept shifting 
about restlessly, certain he would stay awake all night and end up dead tired come 
morning. But the feather bed was agreeable with slumber, and the Bard's singing, 
faint and unintelligible though it was from there, helped him relax until he slipped 
into a deep sleep.  
Chapter 4: The Tower of Arms
When Lannon awoke, he opened the window shutters to see bright sunlight 
pouring down amid the trees, and he realized he had slept until midday. His pack and 
his sword were missing, and he concluded the Knights must have moved the items for 
some reason. He hurried downstairs and found no sign of them. He asked the 
innkeeper--a thin man with pasty skin and a long beard--if his companions were still 
in bed.
The innkeeper chuckled. "Seldom do the Tower Masters sleep past the first rays 
of dawn, my young friend. They decided to let you sleep late, though, because they 
felt you had a rough go of it on the trip." He pointed to a fellow enjoying a drink at a 
table. "That's the Knight you need to see." 
The Knight at the table wore silver chain mail and a sheathed sword. A brown 
sash was slung across his armor.  His hair was short and curly, his face young and 
smooth. He took notice of Lannon and smiled, his blue eyes twinkling with 
amusement.
Lannon hurried over and sat down. "I'm looking for the three Knights. We were 
supposed to go to Dremlock Kingdom this morning."
The man laughed. "Well, you've found me instead. The Tower Masters went on 
ahead earlier, but they sent me to guide you. You won't be seeing much of them now, 
for they are very busy. My name is Cartlan Nobleblood. I'm a Knight and the Squire 
Master of Dremlock, which means you answer to me at all times. Is that understood?"
Lannon nodded halfheartedly, overcome with disappointment. He had wanted to 
ride into Dremlock in the company of the three great Knights. They had made him 
feel important, whereas this Cartlan fellow instantly shrank his ego.  
"We have to get going," said Cartlan. "The Color Trials begin this afternoon, and 
all the new Squires must participate in them."
Cartlan and Lannon set off from Hollow Deep on horseback. Knights, merchants, 
Rangers, and common folk wandered up and down the mountain road. Dwellings 
were plentiful along the steeply climbing trail, ranging from log cabins to mansions. 
Inns and taverns were also abundant, with many bearing colorful names such as the 
Black Dragon Ale Den, the Golden Feasting House of the Knights, and even the 
Divine Inn of Unending Merrymaking! There were many colorful shops, some 
alleging to contain weapons and armor fit for the Knights themselves, and even a 
small Fortuneteller's den called the Eye of Divinity. Lannon took a long look at this 
last building. The Knights said he possessed a talent bearing the same name. Did he, 
then, have a Fortuneteller's gifts?
As the road ran higher and steeper, the shops, inns, and houses vanished, leaving 
only the massive Knightwood pines and rocky outcroppings. Once in a while Lannon 
would glance up and catch glimpses of the mountain's dizzying heights, but he 
couldn't see Dremlock or the wall that protected it. 
"Where are my things?" asked Lannon, remembering his missing pack. 
"Your stuff got thrown away," said Cartlan. "No Squires are allowed to bring 
their goods into Dremlock. It's not necessary." He turned and smirked.
Lannon sat in stunned silence for a while, while Cartlan took to humming a 
cheerful tune. Lannon began to question what kind of men these Knights were, to just 
dispose of his personal items so ruthlessly. Would the Tower Masters have allowed 
that to happen? It didn't seem likely, considering Taris had paid good money for the 
dragon sword, but maybe they didn't know of it.
"I was merely joking about your things," Cartlan finally said. "They were carried 
off by Taris Warhawk to Dremlock. It's possible the sorcerer put a dark spell on them, 
though, so be careful. Sometimes he can get irritated and do things like that. If you 
break out in boils, you'll know why."
Lannon smiled, thinking this Cartlan was really a fool. Lannon knew Taris better 
than Cartlan suspected. If anything, Taris had taken Lannon's items out of concern for 
them. 
"I'll be careful," Lannon said. "I wouldn't want boils, especially with the Color 
Trials coming up today. I'll need to be at my best."
Cartlan chuckled. "You might just want to save yourself the trouble and pass on 
the Trials. You don't look like Knightly material. You'll probably end up wearing an 
orange sash anyways. But Orange is okay. We always need servants in Dremlock."
"What's so bad about Orange?" asked Lannon.
"Nothing," said Cartlan, "if you don't mind belonging to the lowest, most 
disrespected class of Squire in Dremlock. Everyone knows Orange Squires get the 
weakest training and worst assignments. It's kind of a sympathy class--you know, a 
little something for the failures. They can never become Knights, and just stay on to 
make a living serving food, tending the courtyards--that sort of stuff. It's downright 
humiliating, if you ask me. If I were Orange, I'd rather just leave the kingdom. Yet 
many of the lads swallow their pride and remain for the money and comfortable 
living."
"Well, maybe I'll do better than that." The confidence in Lannon's words 
surprised him. "Maybe I'll beat all the trials."
Cartlan shook his head in amusement. "Don't get your hopes up."
Like Hollow Deep, Dremlock Kingdom sat upon a flat, wooded plateau. 
However, this plateau was much wider, nestled against the mountainside, covered in a 
pine forest. The mountainside acted as half of the wall that defended the kingdom, and 
the other half was protected by a natural barrier of stone, like a lip, that ran along the 
plateau's outer edge that faced away from the mountain. The lip formed a sheer wall 
over thirty feet high. Guard towers had been placed atop the wall, and any openings in 
the lip had been filled in with stone blocks. Yet the ridge itself was nearly flawless, 
making it difficult to believe this was a natural formation--until one studied it up close 
and realized it was mostly a solid wall of uncut stone. 
A huge tunnel mouth stood before Lannon and Cartlan, leading into the wall. 
Two thick pillars had been hewn from the stone on either side of the tunnel entrance, 
and a gate between the pillars blocked the way. The gate was silver in hue and made 
of bars as thick as Lannon's legs, and it had no keyhole or recognizable lock, instead 
bearing a wheel on both sides. A small stone guardhouse stood just inside the gate.
"Did the Knights carve this tunnel?" asked Lannon, amazed at the size of it. He 
wondered how they could have accomplished such a feat.
"Don't they have temples where you come from?" said Cartlan. "You should 
know how Darkender Tunnel was made. You should know all about the Divine 
Essence, and the White Guardian, and the Father of the White Guardian. You should 
know about Dremlock from start to...well, to where we are now. You should know all 
that!"
"I've never gone to a temple," said Lannon. "But I do know about the Divine 
Essence and some about Dremlock. It's in my book Tales of Kuran Darkender."
"That's a stupid book," said Cartlan. "I've read it. So you mean to tell me you've 
never, ever, gone to a temple?"
"Never," said Lannon.
Cartlan turned, his mouth gaping open in disgust. "Just where are you from? 
Some sorry little valley off in the middle of nowhere? Did you grow up worshipping 
some pagan forest gods or something?"
"No," Lannon said, unable to come up with a better reply. His face was flushed 
red with embarrassment, and he lowered his gaze.
"Regardless," said Cartlan, "I don't have the patience to explain things you should 
already know. You'll learn all about Dremlock in due time."
Guard towers stood atop the wall on either side of the gate, each manned by two 
Knights armed with crossbows. As they caught sight of Lannon and Cartlan, a bell 
chimed out. A huge Knight, adorned in tarnished plate mail and a two-handed battle 
axe, stepped out of the guardhouse in the tunnel. He was at least seven feet tall, and 
most of his bearded face was concealed with a horned helm. He wore a red sash 
across his plate mail.
"Brought us another, Cartlan?" the Gatekeeper said gruffly.
Cartlan nodded. "Just a little fellow. Goes to show you the Tower Masters will 
take anything these days, Gellick."
Gellick chuckled. "Come now, Cartlan. Give the lad the benefit of the doubt. 
There could be more to him than meets the eye." 
Lannon glanced at the two, his stomach growing heavy with tension. He wished 
more than ever that Cordus, Taris, and Furlus were with him. He felt alone and 
suddenly exposed for the weakling he was. He put his hands in his pockets and shrank 
down in the saddle. The Color Trials--whatever they were--could end up being 
dreadful.
Gellick strode over and gave the wheel a spin that looked totally random. But 
when the wheel stopped, a click arose. He shoved the gate open. "Have a good 
afternoon, Cartlan. And you, little fellow, hang tough. Size means nothing, all in all."
Easy for you to say, Lannon thought.
The floor of Darkender Tunnel was flawlessly smooth. Birlote torches shone on 
the walls--glowing crimson gems mounted on silver rods, hanging between paintings 
of the first Knights of Dremlock. At the tunnel's midpoint stood a silver statue of 
Kuran Darkender, the first Lord Knight, which was twenty feet tall and without 
blemish. A shield displaying the Crest of Dremlock was strapped to his arm, and his 
great sword was thrust towards the mouth of the cavern. His face was grim with a 
warning to all who dared enter here.
As Lannon gazed up at this statue, chills flooded his spine and he was suddenly 
swept away in glory. The strength and power of the Divine Knights swelled within 
him, challenging him to find honor and do great deeds.
As they passed around the statue, Cartlan gave it a slap and chuckled. "What's 
going on there, Big Pointy?" 
The spell broken, Lannon glared at Cartlan. How could this cocky Squire Master 
refer to the greatest Knight ever as Big Pointy? That nickname made Kuran's giant, 
thrust-out sword seem somehow ridiculous rather than magnificent, and Lannon could 
not recapture the mood of before.  
Farther along the tunnel stood another gate and another guardhouse, and beyond 
it was the tunnel's end. This Gatekeeper--a much smaller Knight than the last--sat in 
the building eating lunch. He came out and greeted Cartlan. He wore chain mail and 
had a sheathed short sword at his waist. Like the other Gatekeeper, a red sash was 
slung across his armor. His bearded face was weathered, his eyes kindly. He smiled at 
Lannon, showing badly yellowed teeth, and the boy took an instant liking to him.
"I guess I can let you two pass." 
"Got a small one here, huh Findel?" said Cartlan, motioning towards Lannon. 
"The Tower Masters aren't too picky lately." 
Findel shrugged. "Oh, I don't know. Maybe he's a little on the skinny side, but 
who says all Knights need be muscle bound? To be honest, you aren't much in the 
way of strength yourself, Cartlan."
Cartlan's lips tightened, his voice becoming a bit shrill. "Whatever, Findel! I'm 
plenty strong and you know it!" His face burned crimson and he didn't look at 
Lannon. "So open the gate, because we're in a hurry."
"Patience, boy," said Findel, grinning. He casually strolled over and spun the 
wheel, which stopped with a click. Findel shoved the gate open and nodded, still 
grinning. He winked at Lannon and the lad smiled back.
Maybe it wouldn't be so bad here after all.
Lannon's heart pounded in anticipation of actually seeing Dremlock with his own 
eyes. Even now, he could scarcely believe he was riding into the kingdom built by 
Kuran Darkender. How had this all come about?
The ground of the plateau was rocky in places, mainly at the edges, yet it was 
mostly able to support plant life throughout. A well-worn road led away from the 
tunnel mouth into a forest of colossal pines. The sun hung in the open sky, though 
soon it would creep beyond the stone ridge, leaving the plateau in shadows. The three 
Towers of Dremlock were not visible here due to the trees. 
"This plateau is amazing, don't you think?" said Cartlan. "This is the perfect place 
for a kingdom, if you ask me, because it's so well protected. It's as if the mountain is 
reaching out to enclose Dremlock Kingdom. And yet a forest grows here within these 
stone walls. Some believe this plateau isn't a natural part of the mountain at all, that 
the White Guardian made it."
As they rode into Knightwood--as Cartlan called it--the Great Stable was the first 
building they encountered, a massive rectangular structure surrounded by bare earth 
and fences. The pines had been cleared away around the Stable. Standing within a 
fenced area were rails for jumping, targets for bow practice, and straw dummies for 
lancing and swordplay. Several Squires were engaged in training in this area, their 
weapons flashing in the sunlight. Lannon found the smell of the Stable less than 
appealing, but nothing compared to the stench of the Bloodlands. Cartlan took his 
horse inside and they continued from there on foot.
Just beyond the Stable, to the left of the road, stood Dremlock Cemetery, 
surrounded by a tall iron fence with a locked gate. Small stone crypts and weathered 
statues stood amongst the pines, leading back into the forest. Sunlight poured down 
from between the furry boughs onto the tombs, highlighting some in gold and leaving 
others in shadow--as if these sunlit tombs were somehow special. Goosebumps crept 
along Lannon's flesh. 
"Lord Knights of the past are buried here," said Cartlan. He pointed to the largest 
crypt of all, which stood at off to one side and was nearly hidden by the pines. "That's 
Kuran Darkender's tomb--minus his body, of course, which was never found. I've 
always wanted to get a peek in that crypt."
"Can we go in there?" Lannon asked. 
"This Cemetery is haunted," said Cartlan, ignoring his question. "I know all 
cemeteries are supposed to be haunted--but this one really is. There are Knightly 
spirits within that have not found rest. Don't ever come creeping around here at night, 
if you know what's good for you!"
"I won't," said Lannon, feeling another wave of goose bumps. "It looks closed, 
anyways." As he gazed into the cemetery, a strange image popped into his mind--that 
of a huge black hand swiping out at him from amid the tombs. He quickly turned his 
gaze elsewhere. 
"The Cemetery is only open to the likes of us once per year," said Cartlan. "And 
then only in daylight. The caretaker alone goes in there the rest of the time. Yet Taris 
Warhawk has been known to venture in now and then, come to think of it. He’s into 
that sort of thing, I guess." And then he added in a whisper, "Goodness knows what 
he does out here, amongst all those corpses. I don't think you or I would want to 
know."
Lannon was tempted to defend Taris, but fought off the desire. It would just 
irritate Cartlan to think that Lannon knew the sorcerer better than he did, and since 
Cartlan was the Squire Master, Lannon had no desire to anger him.
Just beyond the Cemetery, the road split into three. They took the road farthest to 
their left. "We're going to the West Tower," Cartlan said.
"Why are the Towers in different places?" Lannon asked.
"This is Dremlock Kingdom," said Cartlan. "Not Dremlock Castle. And I'm not 
sure why it's broken up like that. I know the Towers were built on Olrog mines, so 
maybe the stability of the ground was taken into account. But there could be other 
reasons for them being separate. But I've heard they are linked by underground 
tunnels, which are only used in times of emergency."
"Will I get to see all of Dremlock?" said Lannon.
"You'll see more of the kingdom later," said Cartlan. "But for now, I'm taking 
you to the Squire's Quarters, where you'll stay until the feast begins. And truthfully, 
you'll probably never actually see all of Dremlock. There are places, I'm sure, that 
even Cordus Landsaver has never visited. I'd bet my life on it."
Now and then they passed small museums and monuments dedicated to various 
Knights and battles. Lannon wanted to stop and examine them, but Cartlan practically 
dragged him along, reminding him they were in a hurry. 
At last they came to a clearing in the woods where the West Tower sat. Lannon 
drew in a deep breath at the sight of it. Made mostly of stone blocks taller than 
Lannon, the Tower was much larger than he had imagined it would be. It tapered up 
to a height even greater than the Knightwood trees at the clearing's edge. Many 
windows, doors, and balconies decorated its sides.
"Well, here it is," said Cartlan. "Quite a sight, huh?"
"Yes, it is," Lannon whispered, overwhelmed.
"The Training Grounds lie on the north side," said Cartlan. "That's where the 
Color Trials will take place."
Lannon studied the carefully cut grass, the small and colorful trees, and the stone 
walkways that made up the Tower courtyard. This keep was a thing of beauty the 
likes of which he had never dreamed of--all enclosed by the protective Knightwood 
trees that stood like quiet guardians at the clearing's edge.
"It's beautiful," he said, and then he realized that sounded less than manly. "I 
mean...it's amazing. I can't believe how big it is."
Cartlan nodded. "Just wait until we get inside."
"Where are all the people?" said Lannon, looking around. All he could see were 
two guards by the front door and one cloaked, hooded man trimming the little trees. "I 
always imagined Dremlock would be a busy place."
"It usually is," said Cartlan. "But today, with the Color Trials and all, a lot of 
people are at the Training Grounds. Also, many of our Knights are off fighting 
Goblins. And Dremlock only does business with the outside world two days a week. 
The rest of the time the gates of Darkender Tunnel are locked and no one is usually 
allowed in or out. Only kings, noblemen, or highly respected guests, if they've 
notified us in advance, can sometimes get in."
"Why is that?" asked Lannon
Cartlan stared at him with wide eyes. "Have you been living in a cave? We are 
practically at war, Lannon! Ever heard of Goblins? Ever heard of the Blood Legion?"
"Oh," said Lannon, blushing. "I guess I wasn't thinking."
"I guess not," said Cartlan. "To explain it better, these are dangerous times, and 
spies are everywhere. That's why we've been so closed off from the outside world 
lately. The Blood Legion has grown stronger and more active recently, and Goblins 
are getting smarter. The Knights have to keep an eye on everyone who comes through 
Darkender Tunnel and make sure they're not here on shady business. It takes a lot of 
work and manpower to weed out spies, you know."
The Tower's front door was twelve feet tall--a stone slab with an iron handle. 
Two muscular, bearded Knights stood on either side of it. Both wore red sashes over 
their thick armor. Their faces were stern and grim beneath their horned helms, and 
each Knight held a battle axe and had a large shield slung over his arm. As Lannon 
and Cartlan approached, the guards made no move and their faces did not change 
expression.
"Stern lot, aren't they?" whispered Cartlan. "I think they're pretty bored with their 
job, which makes them grumpy. But it's not as if they have a difficult task, if you 
think about it. They never have to face any real danger. All they have to do is stand 
there and look tough for a few hours each day."
Cartlan nodded to the guards. "Keld, Ramos. How's everything going today? I 
hope you're not having too much fun."
The Guards said nothing and slowly, grunting with effort, they pulled the door 
open. They stood sullen and silent as Lannon and Cartlan entered. The door was 
pushed shut behind them.
Lannon stared in silent wonder.
A huge hall stretched away before him, full of oaken tables and chairs resting 
upon a green-and-gold carpet. Life-sized paintings of Knights lined the walls. The 
only painting Lannon recognized was of Kuran Darkender, which hung above a stone 
fireplace at the opposite end of the hall. A door stood on each side of the fireplace--
one labeled Kitchen and one labeled Armory Entrance. The right wall held a door 
marked Squires’ Quarters. Two of the tables in there were larger than the others and 
adorned with silver tablecloths bearing gold trim. A stack of thick, leather-bound 
books lay on these two special tables, as well as tobacco, pipes, and writing utensils. 
Two men and a Birlote woman, all cloaked in green, sat at the fancy tables, studying 
books and papers. They didn't glance at the newcomers. Two Squires wearing Orange 
sashes stood nearby.
Towering suits of armor lined the hall, and ridiculously large swords, shields, 
spears, and axes decorated the walls, hanging between the paintings. The weapons 
and armor--though obviously too big to be wielded by anyone but a giant--had been 
crafted with extraordinary care. They gleamed brightly in the light of the many Birlote 
torches that lit the chamber, exquisitely detailed runes and pictures engraved into 
them.
"The Armory Hall," said Cartlan.
Lannon could only nod in response.
"See those Green Knights?" Cartlan whispered, pinching Lannon to get his 
attention. "Let me give you some great advice--stay well clear of them at all times. 
They're second in power only to the Tower Masters. If you anger them, you'll be out 
on your ear. If you're lucky."
"What do you mean?" said Lannon.
"You know what's below here?" whispered Cartlan. "That happy little place 
called Dremlock Dungeons. Trust me, you don't want to visit there."
As they walked quickly towards the door marked Squires' Quarters, one of the 
Green Knights glanced up and caught Lannon's eye. He was a clean-shaven, silver-
haired Knight whose age was hard to guess, though the rugged lines on his face 
indicated he was a bit on the elderly side. Lannon gulped, frozen for a moment in the 
Knight's stare. The Knight frowned at him, his eyes narrowing. He took a puff of his 
pipe.
"Come on!" whispered Cartlan, tugging Lannon along. "That's Trenton 
Shadowbane, the Investigator of Dremlock. You don't want to try staring him down!"
They passed beyond the door and climbed a staircase that led up to a hallway 
lined by six more doors. They entered one labeled New Squires. It turned out to be a 
round chamber filled with many beds and small nightstands, a very plain and boring 
room with bare oaken walls. Young men near Lannon's age occupied all but a few of 
the beds. The youths were busy chatting with each other, or playing card and dice 
games. 
Cartlan led Lannon to an empty bed numbered forty-seven. "Your things are 
under here, minus that fancy sword. Taris said to let you know you could have the 
sword when you finish the Color Trials. When I see you again, don't expect any 
special favors."
Lannon ignored him and dragged his pack out from under the bed. He sat down 
on the hard mattress and looked around. He noticed that many of the lads were 
Norack (or pale skinned) like him--though there were several Birlotes and Olrogs 
amongst them. (The Olrog boys already had short beards.) A few of the youths 
bothered to glance his way, but the rest took no notice of him. His eyes passed over 
them quickly, and his heart began to pound anxiously. He began to long for the 
solitude of Knights Valley.
Hurriedly he pulled The Truth about Goblins from his pack and lay down to read. 
He opened to the middle and found himself staring, ironically enough, at a drawing of 
a Foul Brother--which, after the encounter at the North Gate--now seemed like a 
menacing creature rather than a sad, dumb one. He started reading, and soon became 
wrapped up in the book, unaware of the passage of time.
Suddenly he realized someone was trying to get his attention. "Hey, you there!" a 
voice called out. "Why don't you answer me? Get your nose out of that book for a 
second."
Startled, Lannon glanced up. A boy sat on a bed next to him. His hair was black 
and neat, his eyes were large and dark, and he wore black clothing. He was bigger 
than Lannon as many of the boys were, and solidly built.
"What's your name? I'm Vorden Flameblade."
Lannon introduced himself.
"Lannon is a weird name," said Vorden. "I've never heard of a Lannon before."
And Vorden isn't a weird name? Lannon thought.
"I can't wait for the Color Trials to begin," said Vorden. "I know I'm going to be 
picked Brown, at least. Maybe even Red. What about you?"
Lannon shrugged. "I'm kind of worried I might not do so well. What types of 
colors are there? I already know about Orange."
"You could be picked Orange, Brown, White, Blue, Red, or Grey," said Vorden. 
"Orange is the bottom, of course, which means you've failed. Brown is where most of 
the talented Squires end up, and it lies just below Blue in rank, I think. I don't know 
much about Blue, and only rarely does anyone get picked for that. It's some kind of a 
secret, special class. Grey is for sorcerers--another rare class that's mostly for Birlotes. 
And then there's Red, which is what I'm hoping for. Red is second only to Green."
"Why not go for Green, then?" said Lannon.
"I can't," said Vorden. "You can only be Green if you've done great deeds and get 
promoted by a Lord Knight. Only High Council members are Green."
"What about White?" asked Lannon.
"It's kind of like Blue," said Vorden, "but not so mysterious. White is the Healing 
Class. White Knights seldom get to fight--they usually just heal people."
"How boring," said Lannon.
Vorden raised his eyebrows. "Sure, but somebody has to do it. Who else is going 
to care for the sick and wounded?"
Lannon nodded guiltily, thinking of his father, who desperately needed a White 
Knight to cure him. "I just hope I don't end up being White."
"You probably won't," said Vorden. "It's rare, and you don't seem compassionate 
enough for it. Of course, you don't look like a fighter, either. Truthfully, you kind of 
look like Orange material."
"When do we start the Trials?" Lannon asked nervously.
Vorden shrugged. "Hopefully soon. I just can't wait to go out and prove myself to 
the Knights!"
"Have you met some of the others?" Lannon asked.
"Yeah, I know most of the new Squires," said Vorden, "and some of the Knights. 
We've been waiting two weeks for the Color Trials to begin. But Cordus Landsaver 
said he didn't have enough of us yet, and went off in search of more. So where are you 
from, by the way?"
"Knights Welcome," said Lannon. "Just outside of it, actually."
"I'm from Gravendar," said Vorden, "the City of the Dead. It's much bigger than 
Knights Welcome."
"Why is it called that?" said Lannon.
"City of the Dead?" Vorden shrugged. "I guess because of all the Olrog tombs 
there. A lot of Squires here come from Gravendar, but even more come from 
Kalamede, the western city. There are others here from Knights Welcome, too. You 
might know some of them."
"Maybe," said Lannon, knowing he probably wouldn't.
"Let me tell you some things about this place," said Vorden. "First of all, avoid 
the Green Knights, because some are downright mean. The other Knights are more 
easy going, but you still have to mind your manners around them. The Squires are 
okay, with the exception of a few, and you should get along with them. We get good 
food here--three meals a day, which we eat in the Armory Hall. We turn in early, and 
get up early, but so far we haven't gotten any training. I guess we have to wait for the 
Color Trials before the Knights decide how to train us."
"How long before we can be Knights?" asked Lannon. 
"That's an individual thing," said Vorden. "But usually it takes about four to eight 
years, from what I've heard. It all depends on how fast you learn, how talented you 
are, and how hard you work."
"So if you end up being Orange," said Lannon, "you get no training and can never 
become a Knight?"
"Right," said Vorden. "Of course, you could always leave. That's probably what 
I'd do. If I couldn't be a Knight, I'd be too humiliated to stay. I guess I could go live as 
a Ranger or something."
Lannon thought of the Rangers who looked after the North Road, and wondered 
if Vorden knew anything about their hardships.
"Come on," said Vorden. "I'll introduce you to some of the others."
Just then, the door banged open and Cartlan entered. The room fell silent. "Okay, 
Squires, you've got just a few moments to get ready and head into the Hall. We're 
going to have lunch and then a meeting. After that, the Color Trials shall begin. Now 
follow along, please. And hurry up. We don't want to keep the Masters waiting."
"This is it!" said Vorden, grinning. "Now we're going to find out who is Knightly 
material and who isn't!" He straightened his black clothes and smoothed his hair (as if 
that would help him somehow), and jumped up.
Lannon put away his book and rose unsteadily to his feet. His stomach felt ready 
to sink to the floor. He couldn't fathom how Vorden could show such confidence 
(anticipation, even) over something Lannon found terrifying. But glancing around, he 
saw mixed expressions. Not many of the Squires showed the confidence Vorden 
seemed to feel. Most looked tense and hurried as they put on boots and belts and 
stashed away games and such. One lad seemed even worse off than Lannon, as his 
face had gone deathly pale and he was sitting on his bed holding his stomach.
"Poor sod," Vorden whispered, nodding toward the anxious lad. "That's Timlin 
Woodmaster, from Kalamede. I don't know why he was ever picked as a Squire. The 
boy has the courage of a Tree Goblin."
Lannon said nothing, understanding Timlin's fear. Less than a week before, 
Lannon had been a lonely lad living a secluded life in the woods, and now he was 
suddenly surrounded by boys his own age. Soon he would have to go before them and 
prove his worth in the Color Trials. But despite the special power the Knights 
believed he had, he didn't feel the Trials were going to be the least bit fun.
Chapter 5:  The Color Trials
The boys gathered at tables in the Armory Hall. Eight girls, led by a grey-cloaked 
Birlote woman with short silver hair and soft green eyes, soon joined them. The Green 
Knights (there were five of them now) glanced up from their papers and gave stern 
looks whenever the chatter grew too loud. Vorden kept Lannon company, but they 
didn't talk much, except for a few comments on how anxious they were for the Color 
Trials to begin and how hungry Vorden was. Lannon didn't feel hungry at all.
 Not long afterwards, the room fell silent as Cordus Landsaver entered the Hall, 
accompanied by two Knights. One of them had long white hair and beard, his face 
covered in many lines and wrinkles. He wore a plain, pale robe. He walked slowly, 
using a cane to help him along. The other, wearing a blue cloak, was bald and had a 
short black beard and stern eyes. The bald man and Cordus walked with deliberately 
slow steps to keep pace with the elderly man. Cordus positioned himself before the 
fireplace, and the other two took a seat with the Green Knights.
"I know everyone is hungry," Cordus said, "and so you'll be happy to learn that I 
haven't come to make a speech. However, we cannot begin the feast until my Tower 
Masters arrive. They should be along shortly." With that, he sat down with the High 
Council, in a special chair reserved in his honor.
A man dressed in a crimson robe and a feathered hat of the same color came in 
and stood before the fireplace. He was tall and broad-shouldered, with long black hair 
pulled back in a ponytail. His blue eyes twinkled with amusement, and his square jaw 
with bushy sideburns was set in a good-natured grin. "Greetings, new Squires of 
Dremlock Kingdom. I am Crestin Lightwielder--magician and general entertainer of 
Dremlock. It appears we have time for a song or two, while we wait for the Tower 
Masters. I'm sure they'll be here very soon, my young friends!"
Everyone waited patiently while Crestin played a haunting melody, which he 
called The Fall of Serenlock Castle, on a flute. Lannon was reminded of the 
crumbling ruins in the Northern Hills, and for a moment a deep sadness washed over 
him that he didn't quite understand. Then he remembered the statue of Tenneth Bard--
the Black Knight and the founder of the Blood Legion--and his sadness turned into a 
shudder as he envisioned the statue's insane eyes staring down upon him. 
The song was rather long, and afterwards, when the Tower Masters still failed to 
appear, the Green Knights exchanged irritated looks. They kept glancing at a Dragon 
Clock on the wall, which indicated--with some of its scales changing from red to 
silver--that it was around 2:30 in the afternoon. They began muttering quietly to each 
other and shaking their heads. 
Finally Crestin began a speech about Knightly virtues and how fortunate the 
Squires were to have been chosen. Then he rambled on about glory, honor, and the 
wonderful deeds of Kuran Darkender and some other great Knights. Lannon listened 
for a while and then his attention began to wander. Suddenly Crestin pulled a shining 
object from his cloak. He flicked his wrist and tossed a green fireball into the air, 
where it hung for a moment. Then, as the Squires watched in awe, it exploded into 
shafts of red and white flame that zigzagged around the room, just barely missing 
everyone and everything.
Chaos ensued for a moment, as Squires and Council members ducked their heads 
and shielded their faces. This was followed by laughter and cheers when they realized 
no one was being harmed. The flaming shafts fizzled out. 
The Squires applauded loudly.
Crestin smiled. "Nothing to be amazed at, Squires. Just run-of-the-mill fireworks 
that any sorcerer worth his salt could produce." Unconvinced by Crestin's humble 
words, the Squires begged for more.
"Well," said Crestin. "It appears that I have time for a bit more entertainment. 
Let's see now...who can I make disappear? Feager Stoutheart? Gorain Gloryfinder? 
Zender Knightsblood? Let me think about this.... "  
Before he got a chance to perform any more tricks, the tower's front door opened 
and in walked Taris and Furlus. Apparently they were arguing about something, as a 
few last insults were exchanged.
"And I won't see it done," growled Furlus, "because I've had enough of your 
idiotic ideas. And that's the end of it!"
"So then we're late for nothing," Taris grumbled back. "And in this case, I refuse 
to take the blame. Now be quiet and try to act respectable."
They spoke in low voices, but not low enough--as everyone in the Hall could hear 
what was said.  Some of the Green Knights scowled with displeasure. Crestin 
Lightwielder struggled to contain his laughter. 
Furlus straightened his armor and grinned, nodding. Taris bowed. Politely, the 
Green Knights rose and nodded back. The Tower Masters sat down, and the feast 
began. Orange Squires brought platters of food from the kitchen, and soon the tables 
were covered in them. Once Lannon caught scent of the food, his anxiety vanished 
and he ate heartily the juicy meats, soups, vegetables, puddings, and breads--all the 
while wondering if they would always feast this well. He washed it down with a mug 
of milk and then sat back, his belly hurting from too much food, which certainly was 
not the best way to head into the Color Trials.
After the meal, the two Tower Masters walked to the stone fireplace and stood 
with their backs to it. They greatly contrasted each other--one being tall, lean, and 
cloaked in shadow and the other being short, bearded, and enormously stocky.  Furlus 
cleared his throat, then turned and whispered something to Taris. The sorcerer shook 
his head and motioned towards the Squires.
"Uh...hello, good Squires," Furlus said loudly, clearing his throat. "First let me 
say that you're a fine looking bunch and I hope you do well. Now to get right to the 
point, the Color Trials are made of five tests--the Blackstone, the Wall of Fire, the 
Wood, the Flaming Blade, and the Toadstool. I shall oversee the Blackstone, and 
Taris shall stage the Wall of Fire and the Flaming Blade. Vesselin Hopebringer, Lord 
of the White Knights, shall stage the Toadstool, and Carn Pureheart, Lord of the Blue 
Knights, shall stage the Wood."
"Remember," Taris said, "these tests alone will determine your class of Knight. 
Also bear in mind that sometimes success in a Trial is judged by effort and attitude. 
But regardless, just give everything you have and be satisfied with the results. These 
Color Trials are centuries old and have been perfected so there is little margin for 
error. We can determine precisely what class of Knight you should be, if any. You 
were chosen as Squires either because of Knightly Essence or natural talent, and in 
order to be picked for a class other than Orange, you must participate in each of the 
Trials. Boys and girls, weak and strong--there are no exceptions. When all is said and 
done, just accept your fate graciously and count your blessings. And may the Divine 
Essence warm you all. Now, if you'll follow us in an orderly fashion, we can get this 
task underway."
***
The Trial Grounds consisted of a round pavilion in a clearing behind the tower. 
The pavilion had a peaked roof, with a black and silver flag standing atop it that bore 
the Crest of Dremlock. Eight pillars held up that roof, and in between the pillars were 
rows of seats for spectators, except for one open space that marked the entrance. Most 
of the High Council was present. Cordus Landsaver sat with the Council members, 
cloaked in silver and sipping at a huge mug of something, with an Orange servant at 
his side. Three Brown Knights were also there, including Cartlan, along with several 
Orange Squires who stood ready to serve. Yet many of the seats were empty, adding 
to the eerie feeling that Dremlock Kingdom was practically deserted. 
It was a bright and warm summer day, yet a strange feeling lurked in the air. The 
Knights' faces were tense and humorless. It was not the festive scene Lannon had 
always imagined, to say the least. It was quiet, rigid, and hurried.  The Squires were 
brought close to the pavilion's edge, at the entrance, but were not allowed to go up the 
steps. They were expected to wait on the ground--sixty-three Squires in all--until 
called upon to enter. The two Tower Masters stood off to one side in the pavilion, 
conversing with each other, while two Orange Squires carried forth a large black rock 
and a pair of silver gauntlets and laid them near the center of the floor.
 Furlus stepped to edge of the pavilion, looking down upon the Squires, and 
spoke. "You will be called upon one by one. You must try to lift the Blackstone off 
the floor. If you fail on your first attempt, you will be allowed to use the silver 
gauntlets, which possess magic that can increase your strength. Once you've made 
your second attempt, for better or worse, you must leave the pavilion and another 
Squire will be summoned to take your place."
The Blackstone was a small boulder with an iron ring embedded in it. It looked 
far too heavy for Lannon to budge. 
The first lad called into action--a skinny one named Nathan Peacefinder--failed to 
lift the Blackstone on both attempts, and he left the Pavilion shaking his head in 
defeat. Using the silver gauntlets, the second Squire chosen managed to lift it about an 
inch before dropping it back to the floor. Results varied from there, with Vorden 
Flameblade doing the best of all. He managed to move the rock without the gauntlets 
(something no one else could do), and with them he was able to lift it up to his waist, 
where he held it for several moments before slowly setting it back down. 
When Lannon's turn came, he struggled to stop the trembling in his limbs as he 
hurried up onto the platform. He walked over to the Blackstone, avoiding the Knights' 
gazes, feeling the other Squires' eyes upon him. He grasped the iron ring and pulled 
until his arms felt like they might stretch, but the weight remained stationary. With 
shaking hands, he slid on the silver gauntlets, which were too big for him, and he tried 
again to lift the dreaded Blackstone. He pulled furiously, hoping the power within the 
gauntlets would be enough. But the rock did not rise or even move. He wondered if 
the gauntlets actually possessed any magic at all.
Timlin, the scrawny lad from Kalamede who was still pale and scared-looking, 
did even worse than Lannon in a way. He displayed little effort as he made his 
attempts, as if he expected to fail. He kept shaking his head and shrugging helplessly, 
which made Lannon cringe yet took some of the sting out of his own defeat.
Now that the first Trial was done, Taris stepped forward and spoke. "During this 
next test, an illusionary ring of flames shall appear around a Squire. An hourglass will 
be turned, and the Squire has until the sands run out to pass through the flames. Once 
the sands run out, the illusion will have run its course."
When all the Squires had completed this test, Vorden again proved himself 
among the best, leaping forward courageously through the imaginary flames the 
moment the hourglass was turned. (None of the spectators could see the flames, since 
Taris placed the illusion--by touching his subject's forehead--only in the mind of the 
Squire being tested.) During Lannon's turn, he took several moments to summon 
enough will to throw himself through the searing wall of heat that threatened to burn 
him to ash, and by the time he made his escape, the hourglass had actually run out and 
the fire was vanishing from his sight. Timlin did the worst of all sixty-three Squires, 
however, for he huddled on the pavilion floor until time ran out completely, making 
no effort whatsoever.
The blue-cloaked Knight with the bald head and stern gaze came forward. "I am 
Carn Pureheart," he said, "of the Blue Knights. This next Trial is a simple one, 
Squires. There are no so-called magic items to aid you, and no sorcerer's tricks to fool 
your minds. You must break a wooden plank with the flat of your hand. You get one 
try at it, so focus long and hard before striking the blow. I will demonstrate the correct 
form."
Two Orange Squires held a thick plank. Carn studied it for a moment, and then 
slowly imitated the blow he would strike. He demonstrated a few times before 
breaking the plank with ease. "That's all there is to it."
Most of the Squires failed this test.  The only two boys able to break the wood 
completely were Vorden and, amazingly, Timlin. Vorden gave only a slight smile 
after his victory, as if he had expected this result all along, but Timlin practically 
danced for joy as he left the pavilion.
When Lannon's turn came, Vorden whispered in his ear. "Take your time and 
focus. Then just relax and let go with all your might."
Lannon did as Vorden suggested, relaxing himself before unleashing the blow. 
He managed to crack the plank, hurting his hand in the process, but it did not break. 
He tried to hit it again but the Orange Squires tossed it aside. "Only one hit is 
allowed!" they cried. 
Now the White Knight named Vesselin Hopebringer came forward. He was the 
ancient-looking man that had attended the feast in the Great Hall. An Orange servant 
brought him a pillow upon which lay a fat toadstool. His hands trembled as he held 
the pillow. "All I ask of you, Squires," he said in a shaky voice, "is to come forth one 
by one and touch the fungus until I tell you to take your hands away."
This Trial ran on for over two hours, as the Squires had to stand and touch the 
toadstool until Vesselin signaled them to stop, which sometimes took several minutes. 
And if the toadstool turned color, Vesselin would wait a few moments until it changed 
back again before the next Squire could proceed. Only four Squires passed this test, 
making the toadstool turn dark green beneath their touch.
As the shadows of afternoon grew long around the pavilion, and torches were lit, 
Taris made a dagger burn with blue flames. Each Squire had to grab the blade and try 
to banish the flames--which Taris insisted would not harm them--just by willing them 
to disappear. Several of the Squires passed this test, some more easily than others. A 
couple of Squires, including Timlin, were too afraid to even lay hands upon the fiery 
dagger. Lannon and Vorden were among these who courageously grabbed the dull 
blade but failed to banish the flames. The Squire who fared best at this was a Birlote 
girl named Aldreya Silverhawk, who banished the flames instantly.
Lannon was distraught. He had passed nothing, as far as he knew, and this might 
prove to Cordus that he lacked the Eye of Divinity after all (whatever that was). He 
might then be chosen Orange, and never be a Knight. 
Now that the Color Trials had ended, Cordus came down from the seats and stood 
before the Squires. "You have all fared well," he said. "It is not our goal to keep you 
in suspense of the outcome, or cause speculation amongst you. And so before dinner 
you all shall receive your Color Sashes, and be sent to your appropriate towers to 
begin your training. Now go back to the West Tower and seat yourselves in the Hall."
***
The fireplace was ablaze in the Armory Hall. Lannon, Vorden, and a few other 
Squires sat at one table. Five wooden boxes stood near the fireplace. The Green 
Knights were back at their fancy table, joined by Cordus, Furlus, Taris, Vesselin, and 
Carn. Cartlan and two other Brown Knights sat at a table, while Orange Squires stood 
nearby. Crestin Lightwielder sang a gloomy song called The Battle of Old Keep.
The Knights talked quietly amongst themselves, and glanced through books and 
papers. Finally Cordus rose and stood facing the Squires. The Lord Knight regarded 
the Squires solemnly, making them squirm. The torchlight and shadows danced about 
the room, highlighting the glorious paintings on the walls. Cordus stood in the shadow 
of Kuran Darkender's huge portrait, and his silver cloak had been replaced by his 
gleaming breastplate and broadsword. His blue eyes seemed to burn like the Birlote 
torches that lit the chamber. The Squires sat in silent, humbled awe--unable to gaze 
directly into his eyes, yet unable to look away.
"The time has come," Cordus said. "Remember to accept your fate graciously, 
and bear in mind that no class is permanent--save for Orange--and that one can always 
be promoted. Now let us begin. I now call upon Clayith Ironback from Gravendar. 
Come forth and receive your Color!"
One by one, the new Squires of Dremlock approached and were given a sash 
from the boxes. The sashes were narrow and bore golden trim to set them apart from 
the Knightly ones. The Squires showed mixed emotions as they were handed their 
Colors, with one boy shedding tears over an Orange sash and another leaping for joy 
over a rare Red one. When Vorden's turn came, he strode confidently up to the 
podium. He had, after all, easily passed three of the five tests and had clearly done the 
best of all the Squires. The look on his face said he expected no less than Red, but 
strangely enough he was presented with Blue. He stared at it like it was a thing from 
another realm. Then he bowed and hurried from the podium, his face troubled.
When Lannon's turn came, Cordus regarded him with a twinkle in his eye. "And 
for you, Lannon Sunshield, I give the Blue." 
Lannon took the sash gratefully and bowed. He had no idea what it meant, but at 
least it wasn't Orange. He hurried back to where Vorden sat, eager to hear the lad's 
opinion on the matter.
Timlin was one of the last to be called upon, and the defeated look on his face 
said he was expecting Orange all the way. Yet he was wrong.
"To you, Timlin Woodmaster," said Cordus, "I present Blue." With a smile, 
Cordus held out the sash.
His mouth hanging open in disbelief, Timlin snatched the sash from Cordus, 
bowed shakily, and hurried away--as if he feared the Lord Knight might change his 
mind and give him the wretched Orange instead.
Now that the Colors had been handed out, the celebration feast began. The tables 
were laden with all manner of roasts, vegetables, breads, cakes, and puddings. Timlin 
joined Lannon and Vorden at their table. 
"I can't believe I got Blue!" Timlin said, picking at a heap of food on his plate 
that was far bigger than he could handle.
Vorden sighed. "Do we even know what this means, Timlin? We were the only 
three picked for this Color. Why is that?"
Timlin shrugged. "Maybe we're special somehow. You did better than anyone 
else, and Lannon...well, he did okay."
"And what about you?" Vorden said, raising his eyebrows.
"I don't know," Timlin said, and for a moment he looked uncertain. Then he said 
excitedly, "I broke that board! Only you and I managed to do that. Maybe that Blue 
Knight, Carn Pureheart, saw something special in me."
"Obviously someone did," said Vorden. "And that's what I'm worried about. 
Nobody really knows what Blue is good for. They keep to themselves and won't say a 
word about their doings. A few days ago, I managed to get one of the older Blue 
Squires talking about Dremlock, and he spoke freely about anything except his Color 
class. It just seems like I gave my all in the Trials and that I deserved Red."
"Maybe you'll get it later," said Timlin. 
"We'll see," said Vorden, with a shrug. "So what about you, Lannon?"
"I'm just happy I wasn't picked Orange," said Lannon.  "I actually failed all the 
Trials."
"But you did okay in some of them," Vorden said. "And you managed to crack 
the board--which was more than most of the Squires could do."
"I still can't believe I broke it!" said Timlin. 
"That was amazing," Vorden admitted. "I mean, for someone as small as you. It 
took all my strength to break that plank, and I hurt my wrist. It still aches." Vorden 
rubbed his wrist, as if to emphasize his point.
"My wrist is fine," said Timlin. "I feel great."
"You both did better than me," said Lannon.
"None of us are Knights yet," said Vorden. "And we may never be more than 
Squires. That will depend on how hard we work." He smoothed his black hair from 
his forehead and smiled. "But I guess I don't feel so bad, really. I'm sure the Knights 
wouldn't waste my skills on something stupid."
"I'm just happy I got picked for Blue!" Timlin said enthusiastically.
Vorden chuckled. "If you're happy, Timlin, I guess that's good."
Timlin nodded, picking at his mountain of food. (Vorden had already cleaned one 
plate and started on another, while Lannon was halfway through his.)
"Looks like we'll be training together," said Vorden. "At least for a while. Until I 
get what I deserve."
After dinner, Cordus Landsaver got up and spoke. "I have a task for you, Squires. 
Rub water upon your sashes, and watch closely."
Hurriedly the Squires plunged their hands into glasses and pitchers of water and 
rubbed it on their sashes. Like the others, Lannon watched in fascination as silver 
letters appeared seemingly out of nowhere.
Lannon Sunshield
Divine Squire of Dremlock Kingdom
1217 Year of the Wolf
Chapter 6: The Tower of Sorcery
Now that the Squires had received their sashes, they were organized into groups 
based on their Colors. The Orange (there were fourteen of these unhappy youths) 
were sent to Cordus' tower. The Brown and Red remained, for now, in the West 
Tower, while the White were sent to a place called the Hall of Healing. Lannon, 
Vorden, and Timlin--the only Blue of the entire lot--were to reside in the East Tower, 
along with twelve Grey.
The Grey were taken to the North Tower on secret business--undoubtedly 
concerning their sorcery training--and Cartlan was chosen to guide the Blue Squires to 
their new home. He grinned at them, shaking his head. "Come on my merry lads. Into 
the Blue unknown we go." He chuckled, as if finding himself quite clever.
The three Squires gathered their things and followed. As they stepped out into the 
courtyard, Cartlan lit a torch, though pale light shone down from a full moon. Crickets 
chirped amid the grass and flowers, and wolves howled in the woods.
"Do you hear that?" said Cartlan. "We have wolves in Knightwood--huge white 
beasts. There are many rumors about them. Some even believe they're pets kept by 
sorcerers like Taris Warhawk. They only come out during the night hours. In the 
daytime they sleep in caves in the mountainside. At least that's what most folks 
around here believe."
"Have you ever explored the caves?" said Lannon.
Cartlan's eyes widened. "I'm not an idiot, Lannon, even if you are. I wouldn't go 
poking around in wolf lairs. Besides, the caves are forbidden to us." Suddenly, he 
pointed skyward. "Look at that."
A winged shadow soared overhead, blocking out the moonlight for an instant. 
The Squires caught sight of silvery feathers and huge wings.
"An Elder Hawk just passed over," said Cartlan. "Those things are big, and like 
the White Wolves are kept by some here as pets--according to rumor."
As they passed from the courtyard and entered the forest, only Cartlan's torch fire 
was left to guide them, for very little moonlight could penetrate between the 
Knightwood bows. Animal noises came from the woods all around, and at one point a 
heavy body was heard rustling through the underbrush next to the trail, before moving 
away. A wolf howl arose close by, causing all of them to jump and Timlin to let out a 
squeal. Cartlan's face had gone pale, which startled Lannon and the others. Seeing a 
Knight bear such a fearful expression did not fill them with confidence, to say the 
least. 
"I don't usually wander the woods at night," said Cartlan. "Typically everyone is 
indoors by now, unless there's an outside feast or something."
Suddenly a figure stepped into the torchlight, causing Cartlan to jump and reach 
for his sword. But it turned out to be the green-cloaked Investigator, Trenton 
Shadowbane. His grey eyes were shiny and strange in the flickering light. He 
appeared to be unarmed.
"Hello, Cartlan," he said quietly.  
Cartlan recovered his composure and bowed. "Greetings, Trenton. Just out for a 
walk tonight, now that the Trials are over?"
"Just out minding my own business," Trenton said coldly. "As you should be 
minding yours." He sighed deeply. "Very well, if you must know, sometimes I grow 
weary of the constant shifting of papers, the grinding of stone against flesh and 
senses. It is during these times that I seek solace in the embrace of the night."
"Of course," Cartlan said, glancing around nervously in an effort to avoid the 
Investigator's icy gaze. "I'm just taking these Squires to the East Tower."
"Mind the wolves, son," said Trenton, and the gleam in his eye grew brighter. 
"Knightwood knows nothing of the mortal flesh and its yearnings. To be brutally 
honest, the woods might swallow a man whole and not shed a tear."
Cartlan gulped. "I'll be careful."
Trenton adjusted his cloak. "I must be moving on now. Stay on the path, lads, and 
make no trouble."
Cartlan bowed again. "We wouldn't dream of it."
Trenton nodded. Then he fixed his gaze on Lannon. "You really must think 
you're something special," he whispered.
"Huh?" said Lannon, not knowing what to say. The Investigator's piercing grey 
eyes sent goose bumps scampering all over his flesh.
"You heard me!" snapped Trenton. "My eyes are on you, Lannon. I know your 
heart, child, and if things start turning out badly, you'll pay dearly."
With that, Trenton strode on past them and was swallowed up by the shadows. A 
moment later another wolf howl arose, this one louder and closer--coming from the 
direction the Investigator had gone. It was followed by a crash as something big leapt 
away through the forest.
Cartlan and the Squires hurried away without looking back.
When they got a little further down the path, Cartlan wiped sweat from his brow. 
"That was really strange," he muttered. "That man is...well, what can I say? He's 
somewhat different. There are rumors about him."
"He seemed crazy to me," said Vorden. "What did he say about the woods?"
Cartlan shook his head. "Just forget what you saw and heard, Vorden. You'll be 
far better off for it. Remember, you're just a lowly Squire."
"I won't mention it to anyone," said Vorden. "But I won't forget it, either."
Lannon said nothing, still feeling the effects of Trenton's chilling stare. He 
couldn't fathom why the Investigator had singled him out--unless it had something to 
do with the Eye of Divinity. But why would that cause Trenton to be angry with him? 
Wasn't the Eye of Divinity supposed to be helpful to Dremlock somehow?
They came to where the road split into three, and they took the East Path. The 
land sloped downward some, and boulders began appearing amongst the trees. The 
pine trunks were gnarled and split, their roots clustered thick along the trail, and their 
boughs hung low like huge furry hands descending upon the travelers.
"This part of Knightwood has the most ancient feel to it," said Cartlan. "Ruins of 
Olrog dwellings stand here in the woods. Taris' tower is older than Furlus' keep, and it 
was built on some of those ruins, including the remains of the fortress built by Kuran 
Darkender before Dremlock existed as we know it today. Rumor has it that there are 
catacombs beneath the Old Keep, as the fortress is called--Olrog tombs filled with 
traps and riches, and even darker places that have been closed off with bars made of 
indestructible Glaetherin so that nothing can creep forth and enter the tower. But 
actually, who knows?"
"What do you know about the Blue Knights?" asked Vorden.
At first Cartlan looked irritated that Vorden had changed the subject, but then he 
stopped walking and stood in a silence for a moment. Then he sighed loudly. "I don't 
want to worry you or anything, but the few things I've heard about them were not very 
pleasant--to say the least!"
"What things?" Timlin asked fearfully, pressing close to Lannon and Vorden. The 
lad was shaking in his boots, his gaze darting this way and that into the surrounding 
shadows.
Cartlan turned and smirked, his cockiness and attitude of superiority resurfacing. 
"Very odd things, Squires. You'd probably rather not hear of them at this point. You'll 
find out for yourself soon enough."
"Fine by me," said Vorden, refusing to be drawn in.
"I'd like to know," said Lannon, wishing he were as strong-willed as Vorden.
"Tell us!" Timlin begged. "We should be warned."
Cartlan shrugged. "Very well, if you must know. I hear that they're actually 
assassins. They're throat cutters and backstabbers and spies. They sneak around in the 
shadows and kill people when they're sleeping."
Vorden shook his head in disbelief. "No way, Cartlan. The Divine Knights would 
never accept a class like that."
Cartlan laughed. "Think what you must, Vorden. But with the Blood Legion and 
all, and the recent troubles with smart Goblins, spies and assassins are badly needed. 
And Blue Knights aren't real Knights. They're just, well, assassins. Their Books never 
get put in the Round Library. No Lord Knight has ever been a part of that color class. 
Actually, I don't think any Greens have, either. I think Blue Knights always stay that 
color."
"What?" said Vorden, his mouth hanging open. "You mean a Blue Knight can't 
get promoted? So I could never be Red, or Green, or a Lord Knight?" Vorden's body 
was shaking, so distraught was he all of a sudden.
Cartlan nodded. "From what I know, yes. Look at Carn Pureheart, the Lord of the 
Blue Knights. He was never made Green."
"I can't believe this!" said Vorden. "But I've worked so... No, I just can't believe 
it. You've got to be joking with me, Cartlan."
"Not at all," said Cartlan. "But calm down. I'm just telling of rumors. I suggest 
you relax and see for yourself before you get angry."
"I won't stab someone in the back," Vorden muttered. "That's not why I wanted to 
be a Knight."
Cartlan raised his hands helplessly. "You still get to train with the other new 
Squires every day. It's just that you'll receive your special training also--the training 
nobody talks about much because it's an embarrassment to Dremlock." 
Lannon wished he could shut Cartlan up, and somehow permanently remove that 
smirk. Cartlan was probably just trying to get to them, and he was doing an 
exceptionally good job with Vorden--which irritated Lannon all the more because in 
the short time Lannon had known Vorden, he already seemed like a friend. And 
Lannon had never had a true friend near his own age.
Timlin just trotted along looking mystified yet hopeful, his hands in his cloak 
pockets. Once in a while he'd look at Lannon or Vorden, give a shrug, and then shake 
his head--as if the whole matter were beyond his comprehension.  
Vorden mumbled quiet words now and then, his hands knotting into fists, while 
Cartlan strode ahead, whistling a merry tune.
***
Taris' tower looked much the same as the West Tower in size and shape, yet it 
seemed a bit taller and had a small river running through its courtyard. Crumbling 
boulders stood here and there, and the ground was sloped in a shallow valley of mossy 
stones. No flowers or carefully trimmed hedges existed here--just a natural landscape 
that needed no maintenance. The Knightwood pines grew close to the tower, their 
roots arching up from the ground in thick tangles. A stone bridge, webbed with vines, 
spanned the river.
An ancient scent arose from the soil here that reminded Lannon of Knights 
Valley, and for a moment he closed his eyes and breathed deeply, imagining he was 
back home. Oddly enough, the front door was not guarded. 
"Where are the guards?" Lannon asked.
"The East Tower needs no guards," said Cartlan. "This is the Tower of Sorcery. 
It's protected by magic, and people are allowed to come and go as they please. Still, 
you can bet that even now we're being watched."
The Squires glanced up along the tower wall, their gaze passing over balconies 
and windows--some lit by lantern and torchlight--all the way up to the tapering peak. 
They shivered, their hearts pounding harder. This tower, for whatever reason, seemed 
somehow dark, sinister, and very ancient. Perhaps the feeling lurked in the mossy 
landscape and the vine-covered stone blocks at the tower's base, or perhaps it lurked 
in something else that only their subconscious minds could grasp. Regardless, as they 
gazed up at the moonlit keep, they were chilled to the bone. 
"Don't stop now," said Cartlan gleefully. "This is your new home."
After exchanging nervous glances, they followed Cartlan to the front door, which 
bore a leering, demonic face forged of silver at the center. He grasped the door handle 
and pulled it partly open.
"Well, there you go," he said. "Good luck."
"What?" said Timlin. "You're just going to leave us here?"
Cartlan shrugged. "I was told to bring you here. I've done that, so my task is 
finished. I've got to get going now." Cartlan glanced nervously at the forest. "Of 
course I could wait a bit, I suppose. No, I better get going."
"Come on," said Vorden, pulling at Timlin and Lannon. "We'll be okay."
Reluctantly, the two boys followed Vorden into the keep. Cartlan slammed the 
door shut behind them and they were alone. Or so it appeared, anyway.
They stood in a round chamber with six oaken doors. Four of the doors were 
unlabeled, and one was marked Old Keep and one Dining Hall. A stone stairway led 
upwards and another led downwards. Five Birlote torches glowed here, yet the 
shining red gems were not enough to keep much of the chamber from being deep with 
shadow. The stairs rose and descended into darkness.
"Okay, what now?" said Vorden. 
"Maybe we should wait," said Timlin.
"I'm with Timlin on this," said Lannon. "Let's wait for Taris, or somebody, to 
show us where to go. I don't want to get lost in this tower."
"I guess we wait, then," said Vorden, shrugging.
Not long afterwards, the door opened and a boy appeared. It was a Blue Squire 
named Fern Fairblade. Four silver ribbons had been stitched to one end of his sash. 
He was slight of build, with curly black hair and pale skin. He smiled at them.
"Hello," said Vorden. "You might be able to help us. We're looking for the Blue 
Knights." He pointed to his own sash.
"I'm afraid I can't help you," Fern said politely, squinting to read the name on 
Vorden's sash. "I'm just a Squire like you, Vorden, after all. And I'm late for bed. 
Goodnight!" He hurried up the stairs.
Vorden shook his head. "Some help he was."
They waited some more, and Vorden took to pacing about. Twice more Blue 
Squires entered (silver ribbons on their sashes), and each time could give no help and 
were "late for bed."
"Thanks a lot for nothing!" Vorden muttered at the last one. 
Finally a Red Squire came in. He displayed five ribbons on his sash. He was 
bigger than Vorden and at least eighteen years old. His brown hair was shaggy, and he 
had a mustache and a bit of a beard. He nodded to them. "Hello. I'm Drethess 
Silverknight. I've not seen you three before."
"We're new," said Vorden. "We're not sure where to go."
Drethess read their names and smiled. "We have a Sunshield, a Flameblade, and a 
Woodmaster. Not too bad at all--maybe a little offbeat, but imaginative. I know a bit 
about this tower, though certainly not everything. I might be able to help you."
"Why are you here?" Vorden asked. "I thought only Grey and Blue Squires dwelt 
in this keep." 
"All Knights of Dremlock," said Drethess, "must be able to wield magic to some 
extent, not just the Grey ones who specialize in it. That's what gives Dremlock an 
edge over the other kingdoms on Gallamerth. I'm soon to be made a Red Knight, and 
Taris has something special planned for me this evening! Anyways, the top floor is 
where you need to go--and then through the big wooden door. But you might as well 
just wait, because Taris was not far behind me. He should be here any--"
The door creaked open and Taris Warhawk stepped in. He nodded to Drethess. "I 
thought you would be here before dark, as I instructed. A bit late for wandering in the 
forest without good cause, don't you think?"
"I had to run a message to Moten," said Drethess. "A note from Kealin. I guess it 
was extremely urgent for some reason."
"Really?" Taris said. "How strange."
"Why is that strange?" asked Drethess.
"It is not important," said Taris. "Now go to the library. I will be there as soon as 
I get these Squires settled in."
Drethess nodded, bid the Blue Squires goodnight, and raced upstairs.
Taris turned to the others. "I see Cartlan left you in the lurch. Typical of him. 
Still, he is a good Squire Master, and his senses are sharp."
"He told us some things about the Blue Knights," Vorden blurted out. "Some 
things I didn't like."
"Is that so," said Taris, steeping closer. "And what were these things?"
"He said we'll be made assassins, that we'll backstab people and kill them in their 
sleep. And that we can never get promoted!"
Taris stood in silence for a few moments.
The others watched him nervously, wondering if Vorden's words had angered 
him. Was the sorcerer contemplating how to discipline them? Even Lannon wasn't 
sure what was going on in Taris' mind.
At last Taris spoke. "Not all of that is true, Vorden. You can indeed get promoted 
to another Color--if your talents allow it."
"What about the throat cutting and all?" said Vorden.
"It is a complicated matter," said Taris. "You may indeed be trained in some of 
those methods. But whether you do it or not is up to you. Only you can control your 
destiny, Vorden Flameblade, regardless of what training you receive."
"But why wasn't I given Red?" Vorden asked. "I did better than anyone!"
"You don't know that," said Taris. "The High Council alone judged how well you 
did. I must say, however, that you fared very well indeed and could easily have been 
given Red. But the Council felt your skills would be better served--at this time--as 
part of the Blue class. This could change in the future, and Red might then be yours."
"What about me?" Timlin said hopefully. "Do you think I did well?"
"In the test of focus," said Taris, "you did excellent, Timlin. That's why you were 
picked for Blue. Focus means everything to a Blue Knight."
"I won't even ask how I did," Lannon said, fishing for a complement.
"You did fine, Lannon," said Taris, "for one who's Knightly Essence is weak. In 
fact, you surpassed my expectations."
Lannon smiled. Taris seemed the sort to speak his mind, and Lannon was sure he 
spoke the truth and wasn't just trying to be nice.
"We've talked enough," said the sorcerer. "Follow me and I'll get you settled in 
for the night."
They followed Taris up the stone stairs, journeying past several floors. The tower 
had many halls and doors--some bearing labels such as Library, Grey and Blue 
Squires' Quarters for boys and girls, Guest Rooms, Storage Rooms, and some that 
were curiously labeled Dark Rooms. When they reached the tenth floor--and by now 
Lannon's legs were growing wobbly beneath him from all the climbing, they came to 
a door marked Blue Squires--Boys. A huge oaken door at the end of the hall, covered 
in fancy Birlote runes, was labeled The High Council Chamber of Blue and Grey 
Knights.
"You're the only ones staying here right now," Taris said. "All the other Blue 
Squires have a fair amount of experience. We don't like to lump new Squires in with 
the decorated ones--those Squires who've mastered various aspects of their training 
and have received silver ribbons. It causes all manner of problems."
"What kind of problems?" asked Vorden.
"New Squires can feel overshadowed and pressed to learn too quickly," said 
Taris. "Their training can suffer as a result."
"You mean we'll train by ourselves?" said Vorden.
"Sometimes," said Taris. "Yet at other times you will train with the rest of the 
new Squires. You see, only during your special training--that which Blue Squires 
alone receive--will the three of you be isolated from the others. And you, Lannon, will 
engage in some of your training apart from even these two."
Lannon nodded, knowing such training would no doubt involve unlocking the 
Eye of Divinity. He kept his face expressionless, hiding the deep excitement he felt 
over Taris' words. Would the sorcerer train him one on one? Lannon could think of 
nothing more exciting than that prospect.
"What's so special about Lannon?" said Vorden.
"Lannon has a skill," said Taris, lowering his voice, "that only he possesses. That 
skill, called the Eye of Divinity, must be developed further. Meanwhile, none of you 
are allowed to speak of this to anyone."
"Who will help me with it?" asked Lannon, unable to contain himself any longer. 
"Are you going to be my trainer?"
Taris shook his head. "You won't actually require a trainer for this task, at first. 
You'll understand what I mean when the time comes. At some point I may have to 
give you guidance, but not until you've learned to summon the Eye of Divinity."
"I see," said Lannon, his heart sinking.
"We get this whole room to ourselves?" said Timlin, studying the door to their 
quarters with childish excitement shining in his eyes.
"Blue Squires are quite rare," said Taris. "Sometimes the Color Trials won't 
produce one for a year or more at a time. I find it extraordinary that three Squires 
were chosen Blue during these trials. As far as I know, that has never happened 
before. But we certainly have need of them."
"Who will train us?" said Vorden. 
"Don't worry about such things tonight," said Taris. "For now I want you to get 
some sleep. Tomorrow you will be visited by Garrin Daggerblood of the Blue 
Knights. Garrin will get you started on your training, but there are others who will 
instruct you also."
Timlin opened the door and peered into the room. "Can you light a lantern? I 
don't like the shadows."
"The moon is bright tonight," said Taris. "You need no other light." He entered 
the room and opened the shutters on a round window.
"Now goodnight, Squires. And I wish you all pleasant dreams."
With that, the sorcerer motioned them inside and closed the door behind them. 
They could hear Taris whistling softly as he moved off down the hall.
The room was fairly small--compared to the other Squires' Quarters--containing 
only fifteen beds. The beds were all neatly made, with nightstands by them. Nothing 
else worth mentioning could be found in this chamber. The stone walls were bare, 
interrupted only by the window that let in a beam of moonlight.
Lannon's dragon sword lay on his nightstand. He showed it off to his 
companions, but they didn't seem too excited by it so he sheathed it and put it back. 
"It's supposed to be real dragon bone," he mumbled.
"It's a great sword," said Timlin. "I wonder what my weapon will be?"
The boys put their packs beneath their beds and lay down in a row across from 
each other, staring at the cobwebs on the ceiling beams. No one spoke for a while. 
Then Vorden voiced his frustration. "I can't believe this," he muttered. "What are we 
doing way up here?"
"At least we've got the whole room to ourselves," Timlin said.
Vorden turned and glared at him. "That's not a good thing, Timlin. I liked having 
lots of friends around me."
"I kind of like being in Taris' tower," said Lannon.
"This feels strange," said Vorden, "like we've just been cut off from the rest of 
the world--like we've been cast aside or something."
"It's not that bad, really," said Timlin. "It kind of feels right somehow."
Lannon and Vorden both glanced at the lad. Timlin lay on his side, his head 
propped up on his hand and his eyes shining thoughtfully in the moonlight--seeing 
something that only he could see.
"This is pathetic," Vorden grumbled again.
Lannon and Timlin said nothing. Neither was very outgoing, and they liked the 
solitude of this room. Lannon wanted to make friends with the other Squires--but not 
all at once, for that seemed overwhelming. This would give him a chance to get 
acquainted with them slowly. And he had already made two friends, which was more 
than he'd ever had in Knights Valley.
As one by one they drifted off into sleep, they were plunged into dark dreams. In 
those nightmares, screams came from catacombs below, while metal cages rattled and 
chains dragged across stone. Things moved in the darkness below the keep, twisted 
shadows filled with an insatiable hunger--always seeking to escape their forgotten 
chambers and taste the essence of the living once again. 
Chapter 7:  The Temple of the White Guardian
Early the next morning, the three Squires were awakened by a Blue Knight. He 
was young and average in size, with wavy black hair and a thin mustache and beard. 
He wore a cloak representing his color, with no weapons visible, and soft leather 
boots that made virtually no sound as he walked. He smiled and spoke in a quiet 
voice. "Greetings. I am Garrin Daggerblood. And I already know who you three are, 
so you need not introduce yourselves."
Lannon sat up hurriedly. By the look of the sunshine streaming in through the 
window, it was already late in the morning.
"I guess we slept past breakfast," Timlin said nervously.
Vorden yawned and stretched. "Nobody told us exactly when we should get up, 
Timlin, so what does it matter?"
Garrin chuckled. "Not to worry, Squires. I allowed you to sleep in, for there is 
little that needs doing this day. After lunch, we must attend a meeting at the Temple. 
And then I'll bring you back here where you'll be pretty much on your own until 
dinner, for I have obligations to attend to and your training does not truly begin until 
tomorrow morning. Now let us go eat. And don't forget to wear your sashes. You 
must always have them on whenever you leave your room."
They followed Garrin down to the Dining Hall. This room had one table that 
stretched nearly the entire length of it. A fireplace stood against one wall, containing 
only grey ash, next to the kitchen door. Drethess Silverknight--the Red Squire they 
had met on the previous evening--sat at the table eating lunch with another youth. A 
Blue Knight was seated there as well, sipping at a big wooden mug. He appeared to be 
in his twenties, yet was already balding on top. His face held a gloomy expression that 
brightened only slightly when Garrin came in.
Drethess greeted the Squires with a nod and went on talking to his companion. 
The Blue Knight nodded. "Greetings, Master Garrin."
Garrin smiled, and then his face grew somber. "It is good that you have returned, 
Kaelist, even if the others could not." 
Kaelist shook his head. "My journey went very poorly. Trevek and Dolan were 
lost, as was Selenar, the Ranger who helped us once before. She was... She...died 
bravely. They all did. I barely escaped with my life, for whatever that's worth."
Instantly Lannon thought back to Saranna, the beautiful Ranger woman they had 
met on the North Road. He was glad it wasn't her who had been killed.
"This is sad news," said Garrin. "Yet I'd already heard about it--just before the 
Color Trials began. When will they be honored?"
"Three days from now," said Kaelist.
"I liked Trevek and Dolan very much," said Garrin. "I didn't know Selenar 
personally, but I'd heard of her courage. I will be there for the ceremony. Meanwhile, 
I would help ease your grief somehow, were it possible."
Kaelist shook his head. "It doesn't matter. My grief means nothing, for it cannot 
bring them back." His face suddenly held a wounded, haunted look--his eyes sinking 
in and his mouth hanging open. "It was all for nothing, and now I fear that no hope for 
us remains."
"We need not speak of this now," Garrin said quickly, glancing at his three 
Squires. "If you wish, we can go to my quarters and talk in private."
"Not now, Master," said Kaelist, staggering up from his chair. "For now I desire 
only to be alone." Kaelist left the Dining Hall, and that was the last Lannon and the 
other Squires ever saw of him. 
Garrin sat down, his face troubled, while beckoning the others to do the same. 
When they had done so, an Orange Squire came out and took their orders. At Garrin's 
suggestion, the lads ordered stew and bread. Timlin tried to order two bowls, but 
Garrin gave a disapproving shake of the head. "Food is not endless here, Timlin. 
Scrape one bowl clean before you request another."
"I doubt he could handle even one bowl," mused Vorden. "Timlin has the eyes of 
a giant and the stomach of a mouse."
The stew was delicious, the bread baked to perfection. Lannon and Vorden ate 
quickly and heartily, while Timlin picked away at his soup, apparently finding many 
ingredients in it he didn't care for.
"That Knight seemed troubled," said Vorden, his mouth full of bread. "Looks like 
he had a rough time of it."
"Some of his close friends fell in battle," said Garrin, gazing at Vorden sternly. 
"These are dark times for Dremlock Kingdom. But you need to stay focused entirely 
on your training."
"What will our training be like?" asked Vorden. 
"You'll train in the morning with the rest of the new Squires," said Garrin. "You 
will learn weapon skills and sorcery. But your special training as Blue Squires will be 
somewhat different. You will practice stealth, climbing, and picking locks. Yet do not 
think that you are becoming thieves or assassins, as some silly rumors suggest. Blue 
Knights serve a different purpose." He paused, smiling.
"What purpose?" said Vorden.
"When I feel you're ready, I'll answer that question," Garrin said. "But I assure 
you, Vorden, it will take nothing from your honor."
Vorden nodded. "That's good to hear. After what Cartlan said, I was afraid I'd be 
learning how to be a backstabber."
Garrin shook his head. "Foolish rumors, Vorden. But you will be trained to kill 
quickly and silently, without direct confrontation. This is not murder--especially when 
performed on Goblins, as is usually the case. It is simply another way of defeating an 
enemy. You're a smart lad. You should have guessed as much."
Vorden's face reddened and he said nothing.
"Why were we even chosen Blue?" said Timlin.
"Because of talent and necessity," said Garrin. "In these times, Blue Knights are 
badly needed, and you three have the rare talent that a Blue Knight requires. In the 
Color Trials, the Wood test alone determined that. It takes great focus and great 
Knightly essence to break that plank. Few Squires ever accomplish that feat."
"I didn't break it," said Lannon.
"No, you did not," said Garrin. "Nevertheless, you were chosen for Blue and you 
must not question it."
***
After breakfast they left the tower, stepping out into the sunlight that shone down 
upon the mossy stones of the shallow valley. A few enormous, puffy clouds hung in 
the sky, occasionally shadowing the sun as they drifted past. The air was warm, and 
birds whistled and chirped amid the pines that stood beyond the river. Garrin lit a 
pipe, and led them onward slowly, often pausing to take in the sights and sounds.
"We shall visit the Temple," said Garrin. "There we will see the Sacred 
Scriptures, which give the earliest history of Dremlock Kingdom."
Vorden sighed. "I'd rather just get to the training."
Garrin stopped and turned towards him. "So you care little about the histories of 
our kingdom. Yet how could you ever call yourself a Divine Knight of Dremlock 
without knowing why you are Divine? What makes Dremlock special, and the 
Knights who defend it?"
Vorden shrugged. "Talent, I guess."
Garrin shook his head. "If it were talent alone that made us, Dremlock would 
have fallen to Bellis or the Goblins or the Blood Legion long ago. Do you think Kuran 
Darkender was merely talented?"
"He was blessed by the Divine Essence," Lannon said. "I read that in my book 
Tales of Kuran Darkender."
Garrin nodded. "The Divine Essence is our true god. It is the great enemy of the 
realm of Tharnin and of the Deep Shadow."
"I want to know about the Deep Shadow!" Vorden said eagerly.
A frown darkened Garrin's face. "Do not be so eager to hear of the scourge of our 
world, Vorden, lest its hand fall upon you."
Vorden lowered his gaze. "I was just curious, Garrin."
"I understand," said Garrin. "It's just that we can never be too cautious when 
dealing with the Deep Shadow. Now first of all, I would prefer you address me as 
Master Garrin, since I am to be your trainer part of the time. And I suppose I will tell 
you the basic history of the Deep Shadow while we walk to the Temple, since it is 
something everyone should know.
"There was an age once, over twelve thousand years ago, when the only two 
races on our continent of Gallamerth were Olrogs and Noracks. The two races made 
bitter war upon each other, and hatred and bloodlust ruled the land. They worshipped 
pagan gods and such things as chivalry and honor were rare. But then one night, a 
Great Light appeared above a place known as Stormy Mountain--so called because 
storms rage endlessly above the peak--and from that light came a pale, glowing 
creature which would come to be known as the White Guardian. It journeyed down 
the mountainside and blessed the land, teaching Noracks and Olrogs the ways of 
peace and justice."
"What about the Birlotes?" Timlin asked. "Where were the Tree Dwellers?"
"Please do not interrupt me," said Garrin. "Now as I was saying--the White 
Guardian, which one might view as the child of the Great Light above Stormy 
Mountain, became the protector and teacher of the races, and Gallamerth seemed to 
have a very bright future indeed. The Guardian dwelt on our land for over five 
hundred years, and during that time the two races prospered.
"But then disaster struck. A massive rock fell from the heavens one night, landing 
in the ocean just off Gallamerth's shores. It devastated our land, destroying much life. 
But the Noracks and Olrogs survived, as well as most of the other species--though 
some were lost forever. Our continent was plagued with a terrible winter that lasted 
four years and caused the destruction of even more life."
"What about the White Guardian?" said Timlin. "Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't mean to 
interrupt again."  
"When the huge rock hit our land," Garrin went on, "the White Guardian was 
shattered from the shock waves, and the pieces of it were hurled far and wide across 
our continent. The rock's impact had a peculiar effect on the Guardian--causing it to 
explode violently into many pieces--almost like crystal being shattered by sound, if 
any of you Squires have ever witnessed that. These fragments, which still pulsed with 
life, were known simply as Flamestones--for they appear to be rocks that burn 
endlessly."
"Like the Birlote torches," Vorden said. "Are they actually Flamestones?"
"They are just imitations," said Garrin. "True Flamestones possess great power, 
and represent different parts of the Guardian's body--such as the Blood, the Flesh, the 
Heart, and the Mind."
"Did anyone find the Flamestones?" Lannon asked.
"Yes, many were found," said Garrin. "Entire wars were fought over them, and 
they have changed hands many times since those days. Right now most are owned by 
the Birlotes, who keep them locked away in the Hall of Sorcery in their tree city of 
Borenthia. Some have fallen into evil hands, while others still remain undiscovered. 
This may come as a great surprise to you, but the Divine Essence--our god--is nothing 
less than the Mind of the White Guardian. It is the greatest of all the Flamestones."
The Squires exchanged amazed looks.
"Will we get to see the Divine Essence?" Timlin asked excitedly.
"Unfortunately, no," said Garrin. "No one is allowed down there but the Lord 
Knight. Yet I can tell you a little bit about it. The Divine Essence exists in a crystal 
chamber somewhere below the Temple. Kuran Darkender--the first Lord Knight of 
Dremlock--had a vision of it calling to him from the darkness of the Olrog mines 
beneath his fortress, and he and his Knights journeyed below, battling Cave Trolls and 
other Shadow spawn before finding the chamber containing the Essence. The Essence 
spoke to him, telling him he must forge a great kingdom--rather than the mere fortress 
that they had at the time--to battle the expanding Bloodlands. The Divine Essence 
gave us a purpose. And that is how Dremlock began."
"But what does this have to do with the Deep Shadow?" Vorden asked. They had 
stopped walking, and were standing in the forest.
"I'm getting to that," said Garrin, pausing to puff at his pipe. Then he continued. 
"When that great rock fell from the sky and devastated our land, it also ripped a hole 
right through the fabric of our world. Our world borders the dark realm of Tharnin, 
where the Deep Shadow exists--and so a portal between the two worlds was opened at 
the site of impact. The Deep Shadow is a force that endlessly seeks to expand and 
devour, changing everything into a phantom existence, corrupting the nature of reality 
itself. But it could not come through the portal into our world, because the life force 
of living things here repelled it. There was still enough life on Gallamerth to hold the 
Deep Shadow back. So it created the Barloaks--demons that could withstand the force 
of living things. 
"These Barloak demons came through the portal and ravaged our land, making 
war on the Olrogs and Noracks. Their goal was to destroy enough life so that the 
Deep Shadow could enter our world and devour the rest. You see, as the Deep 
Shadow expands it grows stronger, and if it could take Gallamerth, the rest of our 
world would fall easily to it. The entire world would be webbed in a sort of phantom 
darkness.
"Somehow, the Deep Shadow managed to trick the Olrogs into joining with it, 
and in return it gave them powers over weapon forging and other strange abilities that 
they still possess to this day. In fact, many of the Grey Dwarves still see Tharnin as 
the savior of their race--though they also hate and fear the Shadow Realm."
"So only us Noracks were left," Vorden said.
"Yes," said Garrin. "And you can imagine how that went. We were drastically 
outnumbered and swiftly losing ground. But then the Birlotes arrived in great wooden 
ships on our shores. They had abandoned their own land across the sea--a small island 
in comparison to our continent--for it had fallen to earthquakes and volcanoes and 
was in danger of sinking into the sea. The Tree Dwellers sought to make a new home 
on Gallamerth, and quickly joined with the Noracks in their fight against the Deep 
Shadow. The Birlotes possessed great magic, and forged enchanted weapons that 
were a match for the Olrog blades and hammers and could bring great harm to the 
demon Barloaks. Yet still the Noracks and Birlotes were losing the war.
"But then the Birlotes discovered one of the lost Flamestones of the shattered 
Guardian--a crimson one of tremendous power that was of its Blood--resting in the 
heart of a dead volcano. Their king, the great Olzet Ka, wielded this mighty weapon 
against the Deep Shadow. And with it, the Birlotes were able to triumph. Yet some 
areas remained corrupted by the Barloaks' evil. The Bloodlands grew out of that evil 
and spawned Goblins into our world. To the north lies the Desolation of the Deep 
Shadow--which is the worst of all the Dark Lands. 
"Silverland started out as wealthy and prosperous, but the Goblins threatened to 
turn it into a stench-filled wilderness. Bellis, the largest kingdom on Gallamerth, sent 
a legion of Knights to defend Silverland and beat back the Goblins. And that is where 
Dremlock and the Divine Knights enter my tale."
"Well, go on," said Vorden. "Tell the rest of it."
"Yes, tell us," said Timlin.
"We're not at the Temple yet," Lannon reminded him.
 Garrin chuckled. "I would love to, since telling tales of the past is something I 
always enjoy. But you'll learn about the basic history of Dremlock Kingdom at the 
Temple, where Cordus Landsaver is expected to give a speech in just a short while."
"I'd rather hear it from you," said Timlin.
Garrin smiled. "Yet I don't want to take anything away from our Lord Knight, 
who is a magnificent speaker and certainly much better than I. Be patient, lads."
When they came to the intersection of the trails, Garrin led them down the middle 
road, and there they met many Knights and Squires in the woods, who all greeted 
Garrin warmly. As the forest gave way to the Main Courtyard, they found themselves 
walking on a stone pathway that led between rows of little red trees amidst which 
sang birds of varying sizes and colors. The Temple and the North Tower lay ahead in 
this huge clearing. 
The Temple stood in the middle of the courtyard, while looming behind it was 
Cordus' tower--which was larger than the East and West Towers. The road split in two 
around the building as it led onward towards the keep. The Temple was made of 
stone, but had a copper roof weathered green. It was a round, two story building with 
a spectacular landscape surrounding it of little trees, flowers, and sparkling fountains. 
Atop the Temple was a bronze statue of Kuran Darkender. He was down on one knee, 
his face turned up towards the heavens. 
The sweet scent of incense drifted from the Temple, mingling pleasantly with the 
summer day. Birds perched on the statue of Kuran Darkender and sang from the 
round windows in the Temple's walls. The beauty of the courtyard, mixed with the 
surreal scent of the incense, caused powerful feelings to arise within Lannon and the 
other Squires. They felt that they walked in a holy place--that beyond the crude fabric 
of their world existed the splendor of godly realms. The faith of the ones who had 
built this temple was strong, outlasting time and death.
Many of the new Squires were gathered outside the front entrance with their 
trainers. As the four approached, Vorden waved to some of the youths and hurried 
ahead to talk with them. Lannon and Timlin raced after Vorden.
Garrin and the other trainers gathered to talk amongst themselves. Vorden 
introduced Lannon to some of the lads, and one of them struck up a conversation. He 
was a Red Squire with bright blond hair, fair skin, and blue eyes, but his handsome 
face was corrupted by a sneer. "What happened at the Color Trials, Vorden?" he said. 
"I think you got cheated, my friend."
Vorden shrugged. "Blue isn't too bad, I guess. I can live with it--but I'd rather be 
Red like you, Jerret. I, too, think I deserve it."
"And what of this one?" Jerret said, motioning towards Lannon. "Most of the 
Squires feel he deserved Orange."
"It doesn't matter," said Vorden. "We should just be happy with what we have. 
The Knights have their ways. Who are we to question it?" 
"I agree," said Jerret. "I don't care at all, because I know I got what I deserved. 
I'm just saying that some of the other Squires aren't happy about it."
"Then let them come and say it," said Vorden, looking around. None of the other 
Squires seemed to be paying attention. They were too busy talking, gesturing, and 
laughing--sixty-three youths who (with the exception of some of the Orange Squires 
amongst them) were having the greatest time of their lives.
"Derrick's the big complainer," said Jerret. "He passed two of the Trials, yet got 
stuck with Brown. He felt he deserved Blue at least."
Vorden sighed. "Look, Jerret. Blue is a special class. Not everyone can just be 
Blue. For whatever reason, it's a rare thing."
"Tell that to Derrick," said Jerret, as he moved off into the crowd.
Vorden went about socializing here and there, as the crowd split into groups, 
while Lannon and Timlin stood quietly beside each other. Lannon looked with envy 
upon Vorden. He seemed so confident in himself as he wandered about chatting with 
people, yet Lannon's stomach tightened at the thought of trying to initiate 
conversations with these strangers. He wanted to be like Vorden, he realized, more 
and more with each passing moment. Yet he had no idea where to begin.
Timlin seemed even worse off, standing with his gaze focused shyly on the 
ground and his hands in his tunic pockets. He was nervously humming a tune under 
his breath and shuffling his feet.
"I wonder when we can go in?" said Lannon, just for the sake of talking to 
someone--even if that someone had to be little Timlin.
Timlin shook his head and shrugged, a silent answer that did nothing to assist 
them in combating their isolation.
After that, Lannon just kept quiet and waited anxiously, his thoughts beginning to 
wander to more significant things. Here before him was the Temple, and beneath it 
was an actual god--the Divine Essence. The Mind of the White Guardian lay 
somewhere below his feet, still alive and full of wisdom. It had spoken to Kuran 
Darkender and told him of his destiny, and Dremlock had been forged. And now 
Lannon was a Squire in service of that god and the kingdom that it ruled over--and 
someday, if all went well, he would be a Divine Knight. How swiftly things had 
changed. Less than a week before, he had been playing in the Quiet Spot of Knights 
Valley, swinging a stick at the trees and rocks and imagining he was a Knight slaying 
Goblins. Now here he was--the dream made reality. But he was still having trouble 
accepting that reality.
At last the Squires and their trainers were called upon to go inside. They entered 
in an orderly fashion, with each group followed by its trainer. Just beyond the door 
was a short hallway of stone. Thick stalks of incense burned in brass holders in the 
corners, and Birlote torches lit the walls. The shadows and burning incense created an 
engulfing, pleasant atmosphere--one that demanded silence and respect. The boys 
instinctively said nothing above a whisper.
An iron door at the hall's end was engraved with the words: 
WELCOME TO THE TEMPLE OF
THE DIVINE ESSENCE,
WHERE DWELLS HE WHO BREATHED LIFE INTO
THE COLD STONE OF THE MOUNTAIN.
THE TRUE LORD OF DREMLOCK KINGDOM
Beyond that door was the Temple's sanctuary--a large round room with a domed 
ceiling. The ceiling bore painted artwork depicting Stormy Mountain, above which 
hovered the Great Light. Moving down the side of the mountain was the smaller light 
known as the White Guardian, shaped somewhat like a four-legged beast, with a head 
that looked too large for its body. The eight stained-glass windows in here told the 
story of Kuran Darkender's discovery of the Divine Essence and the fulfilling of his 
destiny. They depicted him having his vision of the god, relating that vision to the 
other Knights, the search in the catacombs beneath the keep, the evil that threatened 
them (represented by a shadowy form with fiery red eyes), the crystal chamber where 
the Divine Essence lay in wait, the god casting the light of truth and blessing upon 
Kuran, the constructing of Dremlock Kingdom, and finally--the Crest of the Three 
Towers. 
Stone steps on four sides led up to an altar, where stood a silver sculpture of the 
three crystals that represented the Divine Essence. On the side of the altar were 
dozens of symbols written in the Sacred Text (which, among all the Squires, only 
Lannon could read but was too distracted to bother studying). Birlote torches glowed 
on the walls, and incense burned in every corner. A podium stood next to the altar, a 
huge leather-bound book resting atop it. Cordus Landsaver stood behind the podium, 
dressed in his flowing silver cloak, studying the book. Taris Warhawk and Furlus 
Goblincrusher flanked him. Five Orange Squires stood off to one side, each holding a 
scroll.
Wooden benches sat at the base of the steps, more than enough seats for all of the 
Squires and their trainers. Quietly they filed in and sat down, and then they waited in 
silence for Cordus to begin.
Finally Cordus cleared his throat and glanced up, his face solemn and his eyes 
stern. His piercing gaze swept the crowd, creating shivers and tense muscles. The 
Squires fidgeted nervously beneath that gaze. 
"Greetings, Knights and new Squires of Dremlock," Cordus began at last. "I've 
called you here today to prepare you as best I can for what is to come. I chose the 
Temple, rather than the Meeting Hall in my tower, because herein lie the Sacred 
Scriptures." He pointed to the symbols on the altar. "I don't expect anyone to be able 
to read this, for I myself cannot. But the translation dwells within this book."
He held up the book for all to see. "So as not to waste anyone's time, including 
my own, I shall do this in an orderly and swift fashion. I shall begin with the histories 
of Gallamerth and then Silverland--all the way up to the present day. After that, I shall 
read the Five Sacred Laws of Dremlock Kingdom."
Cordus began his tale the way Garrin Daggerblood had, but as he spoke, his eyes 
grew fiery and his voice thundered out. Extreme conviction lurked in every word, 
backed by the fierceness of his will. Sweat dripped from his brow, and his tangled 
hair was plastered to his forehead.
When Cordus at last reached the part where Garrin had left off, a Squire brought 
him his great wooden mug and he drank deeply before continuing. "Now I've come to 
the part of my tale," he went on, "that directly concerns our great heritage. The 
Knights of Bellis, led by Kuran Darkender, were sent here to Silverland to stop the 
Goblins from transforming it into a wasteland."
His eyes narrowed. "A wasteland, Squires! Here would exist nothing but bloated 
Iracus Trees and the foul beasts they spawned--and it would grow in strength like the 
very Deep Shadow itself, creeping beyond the mountains and devouring all that is 
decent. The Deep Shadow feeds on life--when such life lacks the strength to repel it--
yet the dark creatures it spawns feed on wholesome and natural life regardless of its 
abundance. So in a sense, the children of the Deep Shadow are even stronger than 
their master, since the force of life cannot harm them. All that the Deep Shadow 
touches is corrupted and breeds further disease and despair.
"The Knights sought to destroy the Bloodlands completely, yet they needed a 
fortress secure enough to withstand any assault. They searched for many long and 
weary months, driven on by a need for a castle of peace and strength amidst the 
madness of a corrupted land. They found many potential sights for their keep, yet 
always Kuran Darkender was compelled to move on, until at last they climbed this 
very mountain. Discovering this hidden abode, they knew they had found the best 
possible location. They built a small fortress up here, amidst the abandoned Olrog 
mines. That fortress stands now below Taris' tower, and is referred to as the Old 
Keep. It is, mind you, a forbidden area, Squires!
"Well, one night Kuran Darkender had a vision that something magnificent 
lurked deep in the mines below their keep--something that beckoned to him like the 
music of dreams. The Knights set out to exploring the mines, and uncovered evils that 
I shall not name--the very evils which brought doom to the Olrog miners. At the cost 
of many lives, the Knights beat back the evil and discovered our god in a chamber of 
crystal below. How it got there none can say--but it came to be known as the Divine 
Essence, and was the final proof that the White Guardian yet lived!"
Cordus paused, studying the faces of his audience. Those faces--even amongst 
the Knights--were tense and excited, their gaze focused directly on him and nowhere 
else. He nodded in satisfaction before continuing.
"The Divine Essence consists of three crystals--as shown by this sculpture--that 
burn with a purple flame. It spoke to Kuran, and told him that his Knights must defect 
from Bellis and forge their own kingdom, which they eventually named Dremlock 
after a type of Dragon. This kingdom would make war on the Goblins until none 
remained. It taught Kuran Darkender and his Knights many great secrets--such as how 
to feel the Knightly Essence to determine a subject's talent level.
"Yet Bellis would have none of it, and demanded these great Knights remain part 
of their kingdom. In fact, Bellis was nearing war with the Grey Dwarves and was 
ready to abandon Silverland to the Goblins. When the Knights of Dremlock refused, 
Bellis sent all the Knights it could spare and they built Serenlock Castle, named after 
an even larger kind of Dragon, with the intention of destroying Dremlock.
I've been there, Lannon thought proudly. 
"But Bellis was fighting on two fronts, and Dremlock proved very difficult to 
invade because of its location. Also, our Knights wielded weapons that burned with 
the flame of magic. We prevailed, and in so doing, we established ourselves as a 
kingdom to be reckoned with. Ours is, in fact, the only kingdom ever to defeat Bellis 
in warfare. Now you might be inclined to ask why Bellis would send Knights after us 
when they had the Olrogs to deal with. The answer is simple. The King of Bellis--
Ordamer Kessing--did not always act in a logical manner. He was fiery and stubborn, 
and certainly less than wise, and he seldom heeded anyone else's opinion. And thus, 
as happens to most tyrants eventually, he was later assassinated, after Bellis' defeat at 
the hands of the Divine Knights. His son Belmore--a far more sensible ruler if not as 
iron-willed--then took his father's place as king and an age of prosperity and goodwill 
began. But I'm rambling on a bit now and I apologize."
Cordus cleared his throat, looking a bit sheepish. "So to get back to my tale, 
Kuran Darkender served as Lord Knight for thirty-seven years, and during that time 
Dremlock prospered. All three towers were completed, the Goblins were beaten back 
nearly to extinction, and business in Silverland was faring well. But then the evils that 
dwell in the Olrog mines rose against us, and a battle was fought below Dremlock 
Kingdom. As difficult as it is to believe, and as sorrowful, Kuran Darkender fell in 
combat with something of dastardly powers. His body, however, was never found--
just his sword and his breastplate, left in a pool of blood. The sword was notched and 
the breastplate sheared through. Whatever killed him, Squires, was powerful enough 
to cleave magical Dwarven armor forged of Glaetherin--and it was powerful enough 
to take the life of the most talented and blessed Knight in our history. 
"Now if this tale doesn't keep some of you Squires from trying to venture where 
you shouldn't go--you must certainly wish for death. For make no mistake, young 
ones, death lurks below Dremlock even as I speak!
"But that is enough talk of such things. I shall now read the Five Sacred Laws of 
Dremlock, as they apply to Squires." He motioned to the Orange Squires, and one by 
one, each came forward and handed him a scroll, which he read aloud.
"Squires shall never reveal the secrets of Dremlock to outsiders.
"Squires shall never enter a forbidden area.
"Squires shall not partake in relationships of any kind relating to marriage.
Squires shall never have dealings of any sort with the Deep Shadow or its 
children.
"Squires shall never use their powers for unjust purposes."
When finished, Cordus stood in silence for a time, as if giving the Squires a 
chance to think about what he had said. Then he continued. "Anyone who breaks one 
or more of the Five Sacred Laws can--and probably will--be instantly cast from the 
order. There are many other rules as well, which need no list. These are common-
sense rules, such as never disobeying a Master without proper cause, and never 
sneaking out past bedtime or skipping training sessions. Take heart in knowing the 
Laws also apply to Knights and even myself--the Lord Knight.
"Some of you may wonder why you cannot marry when you get a little older. 
Well, the purity of Dremlock demands a sacrifice. We are Divine Knights--Holy 
Knights if you will. We cannot allow for distractions. However difficult it may seem 
at times, such thoughts and yearnings must be vanquished from our minds. Yet when 
we turn in our Books and retire, we are free of that one Law, and may then marry. The 
Sacred Laws were created by the Divine Essence and must be obeyed!
"That is all for now, Squires. You should now return to your quarters for the 
evening. Tomorrow you begin your training."
Garrin Daggerblood turned to the three Blue Squires. "Go to the East Tower for 
now. I have other business I must attend to. If you wish, you can visit the Library and 
read some books. There are lots of fascinating ones in there. Some even tell of Kuran 
Darkender's exploits."
"Can't we just wander around a bit?" asked Vorden.
"I'm afraid not," said Garrin. "New Squires are not allowed to just roam the 
kingdom at will. Always one of your trainers must know where you are."
"We'll see about that," Vorden whispered, believing only Lannon--who was 
standing closest to him--could make out what he'd said.
Garrin raised his eyebrows. "What did you say, Vorden?"
"I said that's probably for the better, Master Garrin."
Garrin frowned and nodded. "I'll see you a bit later then." With that, he left the 
Temple, giving a backwards glance at Vorden as he departed.
"That Garrin fellow has good hearing," said Vorden. "Still, we could linger a bit 
if we wanted to--you know, sneak around some. But I suppose it wouldn't be wise to 
risk getting in trouble before our training even begins. Come on, then. I guess we'll 
just head to the East Tower like the man said." He moved off towards the door, with 
Lannon and Timlin exchanging a relieved glance before following.
Chapter 8:  The Passage of Days
The training was rigorous. The Squires were awakened at the first light of dawn 
by Garrin Daggerblood and sent to the Great Hall in Furlus' tower, where they were 
allowed a quick breakfast with the other Squires. Cartlan then led them out to where 
the pavilion stood, but their lessons took place under open sky. For the first three 
hours they did nothing but work on physical strength--lifting heavy weights and 
wielding weapons some of them could barely even lift, such as hammers, axes, and 
broadswords.
Furlus Goblincrusher was on hand to give advice on technique, but Cartlan 
oversaw the actual exercises. Cartlan was in a serious mood (perhaps because Furlus 
was present), lacking his usual smirk and malicious attitude. Some of the Squires, like 
Vorden, excelled at this training, while others, like Lannon and Timlin, did poorly and 
grew sore and weary much sooner than the rest.
After that, for the next three hours they were taught battle skills like swordplay, 
shield use, and bow practice. Timlin mastered the bow more quickly than all the 
others, with Vorden and Lannon faring among the best as well. Vorden struggled 
fiercely to beat Timlin out, but Timlin effortlessly maintained an edge over him with 
the bow. Timlin grew ever more enthusiastic and delighted, while Vorden kept 
muttering, shaking his head, and cursing himself.
During the training, the Squires began to falter. They had been provided with 
light chain mail, but it seemed to grow very heavy as the hours wore on and it chafed 
their flesh. It was a hot day, and sweat poured off of them, burning their eyes. Lannon 
often found himself wondering how much more his body could take, yet surprisingly 
Timlin, in spite of his struggles with any task involving physical strength, never lost 
his eagerness and never once voiced a word of complaint. Lannon drew strength from 
Timlin's spirit.
Finally, following Cartlan's instructions, the Squires gathered in the pavilion's 
seats, wondering what was next and hoping it was nothing physically demanding. 
They sat with grim, weary faces--some rubbing strained muscles and other sore spots. 
Taris Warhawk stood on the pavilion floor, a relaxed, shadowy form who seemed 
incapable of feeling their doubts and physical pains.
"Greetings, Squires," Taris began. "I know you have been pushed very hard this 
day. Even though it is not even lunchtime yet, many of you already stand at the 
breaking point and wonder how you can possibly go on. You may also wonder how 
you could ever get up tomorrow morning and do this again. Yet tomorrow you will be 
allowed to rest for the entire day."
Like all the Squires, Lannon's body grew used to such strenuous activities over 
time. He found his second training session a little easier than the first. After the battle 
training, they were sent to the Temple for two hours of history and educational 
lessons. Lannon was surprised to find that some of the Squires didn't even know how 
to read or write, and some knew virtually nothing of Goblins and were horrified to 
discover what they were truly like. Lannon loved these two hours of schooling. It 
gave him a chance to sit and relax after his rigid training, and he learned many things 
about the history of Dremlock and the surrounding lands.
After the educational lessons, the Squires retired to their quarters for rest and 
healing meditation, and they were given the following day off from training as well. 
This pattern of training, resting, and study lessons ran on for two months, and during 
that time, the Squires all got stronger and more skilled at weapons. But still they 
learned no sorcery and received no special training. They were provided with clothing 
and other basic necessities, but they were given no money--as only Knights and 
Orange Squires received payment for their services.
The three Blue Squires saw very little of Garrin Daggerblood during that span--
only briefly on some days when he woke them in the early morning or when he ate 
dinner with them. Once Vorden asked him when their special training would occur, 
and Garrin simply told him to be patient.
Lannon got to know most of the other Squires by name, yet seldom did time or 
circumstance allow him to interact much with them (but he didn't try very hard, 
either). Vorden always seemed to find time to converse with his friends, sometimes 
bending the rules a bit in the process. When they weren't training, the Squires were 
usually in the library or resting in their quarters after the brutal training sessions.
They saw one girl quite often--Aldreya Silverhawk, the Birlote Squire who had 
done well in the trials. She seemed extremely snobbish, and never bothered to talk to 
the Blue Squires even if one of them greeted her. She seemed to regard herself as very 
important--and not without some justification, as she quickly became one of Taris 
Warhawk's favored Squires. He took her under his wing and trained her himself, and 
she had more freedom than the other Squires. She wandered the halls at her leisure, 
and was often found studying sorcery books in the Library. Lannon, Vorden, and 
Timlin admired her beauty, but they were turned off by her coldness and attitude of 
superiority. Vorden labeled her Aldreya Snootyhawk, and he seemed convinced that 
all Birlotes thought they were better than Noracks, secretly or otherwise.
Yet the three boys got to know each other quite well, and one night they held an 
unexpected conversation about their lives. They were sitting on two of the beds, with 
Vorden and Timlin facing Lannon. It was a warm night, a pleasant breeze blowing in 
through the open window, and they were in the mood for talking.
"What was it like living in Knights Welcome?" Vorden asked Lannon. 
"Actually," said Lannon, "I lived just outside of town."
"But you went there a lot, didn't you?"
Lannon thought hard about what he should say. Finally he decided there was no 
harm in admitting the truth. "I lived in a little valley," he said. "In the woods. I rarely 
went into town, and I don't know much about cities."
"Were you a loner?" Vorden asked.
Lannon shrugged. "I guess you could say that."
"I was," Timlin said quietly. "I never had many friends. There were a lot of cruel 
people where I lived, in Kalamede."
"Did they bully you?" said Vorden.
"Sometimes," said Timlin. "But sometimes I got back at them."
Lannon and Vorden exchanged questioning glances.
"What do you mean?" Vorden said.
A hint of a smile appeared at the corner of Timlin's mouth. "Well, you know...I 
just did little things. Sneaky things. Once I put a poisonous snake in a kid's pack." 
Timlin snorted laughter. "It bit his hand and wouldn't let go! He was sick for a few 
days and nearly died."
An uncomfortable silence followed.
"I guess that was some serious payback," Vorden said at last, glancing at Lannon 
and raising his eyebrows. "Anyways, I had it pretty good in Gravendar. I used to get 
in trouble a lot for exploring the Tombs, going into places I didn't belong. I had three 
friends with me who'd do anything I wanted them to." 
Vorden sighed. "It didn't matter what I did. I could do anything I pleased back 
then, because my parents weren't around to do anything about it. So what about your 
folks, Lannon? Are they still living?"
"What?" said Lannon, his mind still focused on what Timlin had said. "Yeah, 
they're fine." He thought of his parents, and wondered how they actually were doing, 
if his father had been healed. He wondered if they had found peace or were still at 
each other's throats all the time. He made a mental note to ask Taris.
"My parents hated me," Timlin said, his face expressionless. "So I lived with my 
aunt. They used to beat me for most any reason. I've got lash scars to prove it." Timlin 
pulled up his shirt and turned, revealing thin, faint lines on his bony back. The lad was 
so skinny he looked half-starved. 
"They're worthless," Timlin whispered. "I hope they die."
Vorden frowned. "You shouldn't say that, Timlin. My folks are dead. They 
caught an illness, and I got sick from it too. My little sister died also."
Lannon stared in shock at Vorden, trying to imagine such a horrific thing. "What 
did you do, Vorden? How did you survive?"
Vorden shrugged. "I lived in the streets of Gravendar. I'm not proud to say this, 
but I stole sometimes to survive. I got good at it--picking pockets and such. But I 
always felt bad about it too, like something was wrong or missing in my life. Then, 
when Admittance Day came to Gravendar this last time, I decided to try my luck with 
the Knights. They picked me right away--before anyone else! From then on, I decided 
I would live an honorable life, like Kuran Darkender did."
"How did you get picked, Timlin?" said Lannon.
Timlin giggled. "It was kind of an accident. My aunt and me were visiting the 
market on Admittance Day, when I bumped into Taris Warhawk in the street. Before I 
could even apologize, he put his hand on my forehead. It felt really weird. Then he 
told me he would make me a Squire of Dremlock, if I desired it."
"What about you, Lannon?" said Vorden.
Lannon began telling his story, and once he got started, he couldn't seem to stop. 
He told everything (save for what Cordus had specifically asked him not to tell). He 
wanted badly to mention the Goblin incident in the North Road, but forced himself to 
keep silent concerning it.
"Is there more?" said Vorden, as if peering into Lannon's thoughts. 
"Nothing more," said Lannon, looking away.
Vorden watched him for a moment, and Lannon could feel the lad's eyes boring 
into him. Then Vorden smiled. "Okay, then. If you say so."
***
At last, with two months gone by, the special training began. Their physical 
routine finished for the day, they were suddenly taken aside by Garrin Daggerblood. 
"Now is the time, Squires, for you to earn those Blue sashes you wear," he said 
sternly. "This training will be much different than what you're used to. As these 
lessons are not greatly physical in nature compared to the standard Knightly training, 
very little healing time will be required, and you should have no problem doing this 
after your usual routine. Your study lessons are now done with."
"Forever?" said Lannon, disappointed.
Garrin nodded. "However, we have a well-stocked library here in the East Tower. 
You're free to read any of the books within."
"Those study lessons were boring anyways," said Vorden. 
"You shall learn the ways of stealth," Garrin told them. "You shall learn to pick 
locks, conceal yourself from an enemy, and climb up places you would never have 
dreamed of climbing before. And you shall speak of it to no one."
The special training took place mostly in the evening, and so the Blue Squires 
were allowed to sleep a bit later than the others. Garrin provided them with blue 
cloaks and soft boots, and taught them how to walk with silent footsteps on most any 
surface. He gave them lock picks and showed them how to open even the most 
complex locks. And he taught them how to climb ropes and rough surfaces.
The Squires came to love this phase of their training, and spent each day looking 
forward to it--for they were allowed at times to sneak around the kingdom (in 
carefully selected areas) and even to climb certain walls of Taris' keep.
Around the same time they began these extra lessons, Lannon was called upon by 
Garrin to unlock the Eye of Divinity.
"You need to learn to use your gift," Garrin told him. "I've waited this long to 
mention it because I felt you needed time to get used to your Knightly training 
routine. Summoning the Eye of Divinity will be difficult, and it will be easy for you 
to become discouraged. But if you work at it the same way you've done with your 
other lessons, you should be fine. Your friends can help you by giving encouragement 
and by keeping you focused.
"Each night, you must spend an hour before bedtime on the task of splitting your 
thoughts in two. You must learn to think of two different things at exactly the same 
time. This is not as simple as it sounds, for it takes more than just seeing the two 
things--they must be separated to different halves of your being. Only when you learn 
to do this will the Eye come forth. You will be allowed to leave your special training 
early to go practice this. This is a task you must do every night. When the Eye of 
Divinity is finally unlocked, you will know it without a doubt. And then you must 
inform me immediately."
Lannon didn't like the sound of this task from the start, and his frustration with it 
grew on a daily basis. For one hour (and sometimes longer) each night he would lay 
there struggling to think of two things--usually images such as colors--at exactly the 
same time. Yet nothing ever seemed to happen. And mixing the colors did not help. 
Black and white did indeed make grey in his mind, but that did nothing to bring forth 
the Eye of Divinity as far as he could tell. To do that, he realized, he would have to 
think of black and white simultaneously without blending them, in different parts of 
his being rather than just in his mind. But how was he supposed to do that? He felt 
that Garrin had been unfair to him by asking him to do something without really 
explaining how. 
As the days passed by, the three Squires did little but train and rest, while 
summer and fall slipped away in a hurry, and the cold and rain crept into the mountain 
air. Then winter came, covering Dremlock in a blanket of white. One thing that 
continued to puzzle them was why they still had not been shown any sorcery. And try 
as they might, they could get no answer.
Lannon learned that his folks were doing well. His father had been cured of his 
illness, at least for the time being. A cheerful letter from them was brought to Lannon, 
and he wrote one back, though he knew it would not be promptly delivered, since 
letters from Knights and Squires were only carried to their destinations twice a year. 
Lannon was left feeling quite satisfied for a while.
The snow deepened, and massive shards of ice hung from the towers. Some of 
the Squires faltered and could not go on. These Squires had failed to properly learn 
the techniques or were too lazy or distracted to keep pace. Others violated the rules 
once too often and were banished from Dremlock. Vorden, who made time to mingle 
during and outside of training, usually kept Lannon and Timlin informed of what was 
going on around the Kingdom. New rumors spread daily among Squires and Knights 
alike. It was said that the Deep Shadow infested Dremlock, and that some Squires 
were possessed by it, like puppets controlled by unseen masters. Some claimed 
Corhen Whiteheart, a Green Knight of the High Council, had looked into these claims 
too deeply and been assassinated, while Trenton Shadowbane--the Investigator of 
Dremlock--did nothing. And indeed Corhen Whiteheart was not seen again.
It was also rumored that food and other supplies were running low, that trade had 
nearly ground to a halt, and that less than a third of Dremlock's Knights still lived, 
with the others having been killed by Goblins. There were even rumors that Goblins 
had taken over the entire forestlands of Hethos and were advancing on the city of 
Kalamede. Injured and half-crazed Knights returned to Dremlock weekly, and the 
Temple was busy honoring the recent dead. The Squires were never invited to these 
ceremonies, only learning of them through rumor. 
Lannon grew a bit taller and more muscular, and could use his dragon sword with 
decent skill. Even though he was behind the others in his skills, he had begun to feel 
like a Divine Squire of Dremlock. Yet the rumors worried him, and made him wonder 
constantly what kind of future he had here--what the Eye of Divinity would be used 
for and if it was even needed anymore. Vorden and Timlin could sneak around 
without being heard or seen, open locks without the need of a key, and climb walls 
fearlessly to deadly heights. But they had the Knightly Essence, and Lannon did not. 
So without the Eye of Divinity he guessed he would probably never be a Knight.
Lannon’s task of summoning the Eye became almost an afterthought to his other 
training, and he usually gave just a halfhearted attempt at it before falling asleep. He 
began to resent missing some of his special training with Garrin, Vorden, and Timlin. 
No more had been mentioned about the Goblin Puzzle, and so it seemed something 
must have already been done about that.
Vorden and Timlin talked little about Lannon’s quest to unlock his special power, 
apparently having given up on the idea that Lannon would ever develop that particular 
skill. Like Lannon, they actually knew nothing about the Eye of Divinity beyond the 
reading of the Sacred Text.
At one point Garrin asked about his progress, and when Lannon had nothing 
positive to report, the Blue Knight was grim. "You must try harder, Lannon. There is 
no other way, to my knowledge. It has to be done for one hour a night--no more and 
no less. If too little time is spent on it, the mind cannot properly warm up to the task, 
and if too much time is taken, the mind grows numb and confused. There is nothing 
that Taris Warhawk, myself, or anyone else can do to help you except to give 
encouragement. Always, throughout history, the Eye of Divinity has been unlocked in 
this fashion. No one really knows why or how. Keep focusing on two different 
thoughts, and sooner or later the Eye shall come forth. It has no choice." 
"But I read the Sacred Text," Lannon said. "So isn't the Eye already unlocked? 
Otherwise how could I do that?"
Garrin shook his head sadly. "I wish it were that simple. Being able to read the 
Text is just a sign that one possesses the Eye. But it does not mean one can summon it 
or control it. Or can you? You should know, Lannon."
"I can't," said Lannon, with a sigh.
Growing desperate for help, Lannon appealed to Vorden and Timlin. Yet they 
seemed to take little interest in the matter. Their minds had apparently become melded 
with their training. It seemed that, to them, little existed beyond their daily lessons 
and accomplishments. Timlin had nothing to say, and Vorden simply shrugged and 
told him to keep trying.
The time seemed to pass swiftly, and before they knew it, eight months had gone 
by and had taken them into the heart of winter.
Vorden kept his true feelings well hidden over those months, until finally--for 
reasons known only to him--they suddenly surged forth. And the rigid schedule of 
training and resting was shattered.
Chapter 9:  What Lay Beneath Old Keep
One night, while Lannon lay on his bed trying to unlock the Eye of Divinity (with 
his mind often straying from that frustrating task to more interesting things), Vorden 
and Timlin barged into the room, having completed their special training for the 
evening. In the flickering lantern light, Lannon could see by the excitement on their 
faces that something was up. He yawned and sat up, resting his bare feet on the cold 
floorboards. He wished, as he had many times, the East Tower were a warmer place.  
"I have an idea," Vorden said, "about how you can summon the Eye of Divinity." 
He adjusted his sash, smoothed back his black hair, and smiled. "Since the Knights 
seem to think it's important for some reason, I feel like I should help. Maybe the fate 
of Dremlock depends on it somehow. I started thinking it over today and came up 
with something. It might not work, but it's worth a try."
"Okay," said Lannon, showing cautious optimism. "What should I do?" In the 
time that Lannon had known him, he had come to realize that Vorden almost always 
knew what he was talking about. If he had an idea, it was typically something 
brilliant.
"It's quite simple," Vorden said. "Timlin will stand on one side of you, and I'll 
stand on the other. I'll say something, and he'll say the opposite--like light and dark, 
for instance. And while we say it, we'll tap you on the shoulders. Maybe you just need 
a little help to get your mind focused."
"Okay," said Lannon, standing up. "I guess I have nothing to lose."
Vorden stood on one side of Lannon, and Timlin on the other. They agreed to use 
red and green as their words--Knightly colors.
"Get ready, Timlin," said Vorden. "When I signal you, say red, and I'll try to say 
green at the same time. And as you say it, tap Lannon's shoulder. Okay, here goes."
He signaled to Timlin and yelled "Red!"
"Green!" Vorden said an instant later, and Lannon's shoulders were tapped at 
exactly the same time.
For a moment Lannon felt dizzy and lightheaded. Then the feeling vanished and 
he was left wondering if it had actually existed at all. 
"I think I felt something," he said. "But I'm not sure."
"We were way out of time on our words," said Vorden. "We need to keep trying 
until we get it right. Let's do it again, Timlin."
For nearly an hour, the boys tried to get their timing down. At first they were 
always just a little off on their words or else on their taps, but eventually they got it 
almost perfect. Each time the words or the taps were done at exactly the same time, 
Lannon felt lightheaded and dizzy, and he grew more excited with each attempt. 
Then his mind suddenly split, and he became aware of two things at once. He was 
seeing a block of red in his mind and a block of green--not side-by-side or blended (as 
anyone might be able to view them), but as something else. They were solid entities 
that he could view carefully without distraction--and they existed in different halves 
of his being. He felt like he was divided in two. Then, from the gap that existed 
between his two selves, a force pushed its way out. Like a living extension of 
Lannon's will, it reached out and probed wherever he commanded it. It fell upon 
Vorden and Timlin, and he saw things that caused his throat to tighten.
Lannon saw that Vorden was dark in spirit and given to a strange road that could 
destroy him and all others who got too close. Timlin was innocent--cloaked in white--
yet underneath lurked a sharp and deadly bite, waiting in surprise for those who could 
not glimpse it.
Horrified by what he saw, Lannon drew the Eye back inside him. His selves 
merged again into one, and the gateway was sealed.
"What happened?" Vorden asked him.
Unsure of what he should tell them, Lannon hesitated for a few moments. At last 
he said, "The Eye of Divinity came out, I think. But I didn't like what it showed me. It 
seemed like it was probing for secrets in both of you."
"Well, that's probably what it does!" Vorden said excitedly, clutching Lannon's 
shoulder so hard the boy winced. "It reveals hidden motives and strengths and 
weaknesses!"
"We should tell Master Garrin!" Timlin said.
"Right," said Vorden, walking over to the window and opening the shutters. The 
wind howled against the tower, and a puff of glittering snowflakes blew in on him. He 
seemed deep in thought for a time. At last he turned and spoke. "Not just yet, I think. 
We need to experiment some more--find out if it's truly the Eye and not something 
else."
"It has to be the Eye," said Lannon, sitting back down on the bed. "What else 
could it be?" Lannon shivered, and he drew his blanket around him. "Close the 
window, Vorden. I'm freezing." At last he had completed his elusive task, yet he felt 
little sense of accomplishment. He'd needed help from others, so had he truly 
succeeded? And the Eye had shown him things--whether true or not--that he had been 
ill prepared to witness.
Vorden shrugged. "It could be dark sorcery, or Knightly Essence. Who knows? I 
just think we should make sure. I've been doing some thinking...."
Vorden closed the thick shutters and turned to Lannon. He lowered his voice to a 
whisper. "You know that door down below--the one marked Old Keep? I know it's 
forbidden and all, but I don't see what harm it would do to go down there and have a 
look around."
"I don't like that idea at all!" said Lannon, stunned that Vorden would even 
suggest such a thing. "If we were caught, we could be cast from the Order. And you 
heard what Cordus Landsaver said about creatures lurking down there."
"But the Divine Essence is down there as well," said Vorden. "And I've been 
having dreams about it. I think it's calling to me."
Timlin's mouth dropped open. "Vorden, why didn't you tell Master Garrin you 
were having such dreams?"
Vorden frowned "Why do we have to tell Master Garrin everything, Timlin? This 
is something between the Divine Essence and me. I want to find out what my dreams 
truly mean, like Kuran Darkender did. Yet I'm afraid to go down there alone." He 
sighed, his dark eyes taking on a pleading look. "I need your help. The Knights would 
never allow me to venture down in the mines, dreams or not."
Lannon glanced at Timlin, and then back to Vorden. "I'm just worried we'll get 
caught, or worse--get killed down there."
"We'll take it slow and be extra careful," said Vorden. "If we see any signs of 
danger, we'll turn back. Besides, I honestly don't think there is any danger down there 
now. The Knights probably killed the creatures long ago, and they just say there's still 
some down there to keep people from seeing the Divine Essence. After all, why 
shouldn't everyone be allowed to see it? I think that's a rule based on pointless greed."
"But what if we're caught?" said Lannon.
"We'd certainly be in trouble," said Vorden. "But I think they'd forgive us. After 
all, you have the Eye of Divinity--which they seem to value greatly. And Timlin and 
me helped you summon it. Without us, you can't use it. They might punish us, but I 
doubt we'd be thrown out. Besides, we're Blue Squires. They won't catch us."
"I don't know," said Lannon, shaking his head slowly. He was thinking of what 
the Eye had shown him about Vorden and not liking any of this one bit. "I just don't 
think I can do it, Vorden."
For an instant, Vorden's face reddened with anger. "Very well, then. Be a coward. 
Maybe the other Squires are right about you, Lannon. Maybe you don't deserve to be 
Blue. Maybe you should've been picked for Orange. And some thanks I get for 
helping you use that stupid Eye thing. See if I ever help you again! "With that, 
Vorden yanked his boots off, lay down on his bed, and turned away.
Lannon stared helplessly at Timlin, feeling horrible inside and wondering what 
he could do. Vorden had been a true friend to him--someone he could look up to--and 
now it seemed he was going to lose that friendship forever. But the risks of what 
Vorden proposed were dastardly.
Timlin could only shrug in his meek, annoying way.
***
As Lannon lay in bed, staring up at the maze of wooden beams and cobwebs that 
crisscrossed the ceiling, he began to doubt his decision. Vorden had indeed helped 
him to unlock the Eye, and more importantly, Vorden had been a true friend to him 
from the start. How could Lannon just turn his back on him? But how could he ignore 
all his instincts and common sense and go along with Vorden's mad plan? Lannon 
certainly wanted to see the Divine Essence for himself--but not at such a risk. 
Lannon thought he would not be able to sleep that night, which was not good--
since training would resume again early in the morning. (Training now took place two 
days in a row with one day of rest afterwards.)  His mind was in turmoil, yet beneath 
all the gloomy thoughts--buried deep but still very much alive--was a feeling of 
elation. He had called forth the Eye, and it was indeed powerful. Part of him 
wondered why he shouldn't just go along with Vorden's plan. If Lannon were truly 
blessed, the Divine Essence would surely help him make the right decision.
He prayed to it for an answer, and in the midst of that prayer he fell asleep. He 
dreamt of the Divine Essence in its crystal chamber. Its piercing light fell on him, 
beckoning him below. 
"I will share my secrets," it whispered to him. 
***
Even before Lannon awoke the next morning, he knew he had his answer. 
Neither the risk of losing his Knighthood nor even the risk of losing his very life 
could keep him from going in the dark and forbidden mines below. The Divine 
Essence had apparently commanded it, and Lannon could not refuse. A dream of the 
Essence was no ordinary dream. One only had to read the first chapter of Tales of 
Kuran Darkender to learn that. It had promised to share its secrets with Lannon. How 
could he ignore that?
When Lannon revealed his decision, Vorden was overcome with excitement, and 
seemed quite forgiving. He apologized several times for his attitude of the night 
before, swearing that Lannon would be his friend forever. The ease with which 
Vorden forgave him startled Lannon, yet he couldn't deny that a great burden had 
been lifted off his shoulders, leaving him feeling relieved but uncertain.
The day drifted by slowly. He could not seem to focus on his training and did 
poorly. All he wanted was for the day to end so they could get their plan moving 
before the anxiety wore his nerves down. Vorden, however, seemed to train with extra 
vigor and couldn't hide the delight he felt over something that terrified Lannon.
When at last all their training was done, the Blue Squires sat in their quarters 
talking it over. Vorden laid out a specific plan he had thought up during the day, and 
then Lannon knew beyond a doubt they were actually going to go through with this--
something he hadn't quite believed until now.
"The plan is simple," said Vorden. "We'll all go down to the first floor together. 
While one of us picks the lock of the door to Old Keep, the other two will watch the 
stairs and listen at the front door for anyone approaching. Once it's unlocked, I'll 
swipe one of those Birlote torches off the wall and we'll head on in, closing the door 
behind us. No one will even know we went that way."
"What if someone notices the torch is missing?" said Lannon.
"Not likely," said Vorden. "And even if they do, how can they prove we took it? 
The fact is--they can't. Anyone could have stolen it for any reason."
"But what if someone sees us when we go down to the first floor?" said Lannon. 
"What should we tell them?"
"We say we heard a noise and came down to investigate," said Vorden. "And 
then we stick with that story no matter what. Look, don't worry about it. Most 
everyone's in bed by now, anyway."
"But what if someone checks on us?" said Lannon.
"We won't be gone that long," said Vorden. "But if someone checks on us and 
finds we're missing, we'll just tell them the noise story."
"It's not a strong plan," said Lannon. "There are a lot of holes in it, Vorden."
Vorden shrugged. "Well, then make up your mind. Do we go or not?"
Lannon nodded, remembering his dream. "I have to go."
"I think it's worth it," said Timlin. "To see the Divine Essence would be better 
than anything! Can I pick the lock? I'm good at that."
Vorden grinned, nodding. "You're the best at it, Timlin. Once we're past that 
door, you can also check the walls and floor for traps, while Lannon and me keep alert 
for danger. You'll act as Passage Man. I'll be Arms Man, and Lannon will be Scout 
Man. We go together as Blue Squires!"
"I wish I had more training," said Lannon. "But let's get on with it."
Suddenly there was a startled gasp. Shadows by the window took shape and a girl 
seemed to appear out of nowhere. It was Aldreya Silverhawk.
Her green eyes were wide. She wore a hooded grey cloak, and the hood had slid 
back to reveal her curly silver hair, pointed ears, and bronze-colored skin. In one hand 
she held a stone dagger, pulled tight against her chest.
"I can't believe what I've just heard," she whispered.
The boys jumped up, their hearts racing.
"What are you doing here?" Vorden said. "Were you spying on us?"
"No!" Aldreya insisted. "I wasn't spying. I was...just doing some of my training. I 
was hiding myself, blending in with the shadows."
"You were spying," Vorden said coldly.
"I heard everything," she said. "I know what you're planning, and you're not 
going to get away with it. I'm going to see Taris at once. I'll tell him what you're up 
to."
Lannon and Timlin glanced at each other, and then back at Vorden, waiting for 
him to find a way out of this situation. They had no clue what to do and were on the 
verge of panic, their faces pale.
But Vorden remained calm. "Go ahead," he said. "Tell on us--and then I'll tell on 
you. You're not supposed to be in our room. It's forbidden for boys and girls to be in 
the same quarters together."
She hesitated for a moment, and then spoke. "Okay, if that's the way it must be. 
I'll just forget what I heard, and you forget I was ever here."
Lannon and Timlin breathed sighs of relief.
But Vorden wasn't finished. "It's not that easy," he said. "All we did was talk 
about breaking the rules. You actually broke them. I think I should give a little yell 
and alert someone right now."
Aldreya glanced towards the door. "Wait--don't do that! I could be thrown out of 
Dremlock. I'm sorry I was spy...uh...training in here."
"Why don't you come with us?" said Vorden. "You're a good sorceress, from 
what I hear. We could use your help."
"Break the Sacred Laws?" the Birlote girl said. "Go beneath Old Keep?" She 
frowned. "Cordus said that monsters lurk down there."
Patiently, Vorden explained his theory about how the Knights were just trying to 
scare people away from the Divine Essence.
"At the first sign of trouble, we'll turn back," he said.
Lannon didn't believe even the slightest chance existed that Aldreya Silverhawk 
would agree to such a mad scheme. He was wrong.
"When should we go," she said, stepping forward eagerly. "I can't deny that I 
would love to see the Divine Essence. Who wouldn't? But when the task is done, no 
one must tell Taris anything. Understood?"
"Understood," said Vorden. "And now is the perfect time. We're all here, and we 
have tomorrow off from training."
"I don't have tomorrow off," she said. "I have to be... Actually, I'm not supposed 
to tell you that. Let's just say I need to be up fairly early. But I can handle it. I'm used 
to staying up late."
Aldreya smiled excitedly. "This is a good opportunity to test my skills. 
Truthfully, I've been doing a lot of sneaking around ever since I learned to blend with 
the shadows. I just haven't tried anything this daring yet. Besides, even if we get 
caught, I don't think Taris would let me be punished. I just can't imagine it!"
"Of course," Vorden agreed, with an amused, sideways glance at Lannon. "If 
anyone would be spared punishment, it would be you."
"Then I have your word on it?" Vorden said, stepping close to her. He extended 
his hand. "You'll go with us, and not tell anyone about this?"
"Yes, you have my word," she said. She glanced at his hand, and then gave it a 
quick shake. "I'll keep it secret, Vorden Flameblade."
"I hope your word is good, Aldreya Snoot..." Vorden cleared his throat, his face 
reddening. "Aldreya Silverhawk."
She smiled again, and for the first time, the Blue Squires realized how truly 
beautiful she was. But it was a cold and dangerous sort of beauty--one that could not 
be trusted. Lannon pondered how quickly and easily she had agreed to this, and a 
warning flashed through his mind. Surely she was planning to betray them. Or maybe 
she was spying for Taris. Was Vorden blind to this? It seemed unlikely someone as 
intelligent as Vorden would fail to realize Aldreya cared little or nothing about them. 
She was a Birlote, and the Tree Dwellers were not known for their rule breaking. 
From what Lannon had seen, they obeyed even the smallest laws. She probably 
realized she lacked enough evidence to get them in trouble at this point, and was 
playing along with their plan in order gather a stronger case against them.
"I don't know about this," Lannon said. "Maybe we should talk things over first, 
Vorden, just between us three boys."
"Don't worry about it," said Vorden. "Aldreya's word is good."
"My word is very good!" said Aldreya, glaring at Lannon. "Why would you think 
otherwise? Birlotes do not lie."
Lannon stared back, unfazed. "I guess I don't trust you."
"I don't trust her at all!" said Timlin.
A hurt look appeared on Aldreya's face and she turned away for a moment. When 
she turned back, her face was impassive. "Think whatever you want, Lannon. If you 
don't want me to go with you, I'll leave."
"We want you to go," said Vorden. "Don't we, Lannon?"
Lannon shrugged. "I guess so."
"Then let's get going!" Aldreya snapped. "We don't have all night."
The boys grabbed their weapons and donned light armor (which had been 
specially crafted for stealth and ease of movement), blue cloaks (of the thick winter 
variety), and soft leather boots. Vorden peered out into the hall, and then motioned to 
the others to follow. As they made their way down from floor to floor, they stayed in 
the shadows as much as possible. The Blue Squires knew how to move stealthily 
through the dimly lit areas, but they could not hide themselves nearly as well as 
Aldreya, who seemed to all but vanish completely at times.
Chills crept along Lannon's flesh. This was Taris Warhawk's tower, and he was a 
great sorcerer. Would he somehow know what they were up to? Lannon felt like he 
was betraying Taris, and for a moment he hesitated, until Vorden turned and gave him 
a hard, questioning stare that got him moving again.
They met no one, and at last they reached the tower's first floor. Timlin moved 
towards the door marked Old Keep, and then turned back to Vorden with a puzzled 
look on his face. "What do I use to pick the lock?" he whispered. "Master Garrin 
keeps all our tools and stuff."
Vorden smiled and removed a set of lock picks from his cloak. He tossed them to 
Timlin. "Don't ask where I got them," he said.
Aldreya gave Vorden a cold stare.
Timlin grinned, gazing triumphantly at Aldreya--daring her to speak in protest of 
Vorden's thievery. Then he hurried over to work on the door.
Vorden listened at the front entrance, while Lannon--his body trembling and his 
heart pounding--kept watch at the stairs.
Several moments passed by in silence. "Hurry up, Timlin!" Vorden whispered. 
"You're taking way too long."
Finally Timlin turned and nodded. Vorden grabbed a Birlote torch from the wall, 
and they gathered before the door. Without hesitation, Vorden yanked it open and 
stepped inside. The others quickly followed, pulling the door shut behind them.
Before the Squires, a stone stairway descended into the darkness. A musty smell 
arose from below, and even here at the very gateway to Old Keep the gloom had a 
sinister feel to it. The dark was deep and heavy over the cold stone that had lain 
undisturbed for centuries. The Birlote torch could not shine far enough down the steps 
to penetrate the blackness below. 
"Let's not do this!" Timlin whispered shakily. The boy was trembling from head 
to foot. "I don't want to go down there, Vorden."
Vorden turned and glared at him. "We're still in Taris' keep, Timlin. We haven't 
even entered Old Keep yet, let alone the mines! What's left of the Old Keep is pretty 
much underground, from what I've heard, and so we have to go down a ways. Do you 
really think something lurks right down there? If so, it must be pretty weak, or a 
simple wooden door wouldn't stop it. Now quit being a coward. We've come this far, 
and we have to finish this!"
Vorden seized Timlin's cloak. "Dremlock Kingdom is in trouble. We all know it. 
It might even fall to the Goblins, or worse--the Deep Shadow. I dreamt of the Divine 
Essence, and it has all the answers. This quest could be incredibly important. I may 
discover something to help save the kingdom."
Timlin nodded sheepishly.
Lannon said nothing about his dream, but secretly he wondered if Vorden was 
lying about his own.
With that, Vorden draped his battle axe over his shoulder and started down the 
stairs. Lannon held his sword ready, and Timlin unsheathed his preferred weapon--a 
long, curved dagger called a Flayer. Then they followed him below, struggling to 
keep pace so the shadows wouldn't engulf them.
The stairway led down to a circular chamber. The stone walls were made of 
uneven, crudely cut blocks that hadn't been fitted together well. Two iron doors stood 
here, and another stairway descended into darkness.
"Which way should we go?" said Lannon.
Vorden pointed to the stairs. "We need to keep going down. From what everyone 
seems to think, the Divine Essence dwells in the mines somewhere. This is just the 
keep the old Knights built above those mines, and hopefully the entrance leading 
down there isn't sealed off with bars of Glaetherin like Cordus Landsaver said. If it is, 
then I guess all this is going to be for nothing."
The stairs led them down to another round chamber--this one with four doors. 
Iron torch holders hung from the walls, and the broken remains of several tables and 
chairs lay scattered about the room, as well as chunks of pottery. The Squires checked 
behind all the doors, and found the remains of a kitchen, a forge with a blackened 
stone furnace, and a large room with wooden bunks lining the walls. 
Behind the last door they checked, they found what they were looking for.
The square room behind this door was cut from the stone of the mountain. Steps 
led down from the doorway to the chamber floor. Directly opposite the stairs, on the 
other side of the room, was the dark mouth of a tunnel that was blocked by a gate of 
silver bars. A wheel lock stood at the center of the bars.
"No!" muttered Vorden, leaping down the steps. He lowered his axe in defeat. 
"Bars of Glaetherin, just like Cordus said. Indestructible." He turned back to the 
others, who were right behind him. "That's it. We can't go any farther."
Vorden gave the wheel a hard spin. It twirled for a couple moments and then 
slowly came to a stop. No click could be heard.
"Is there a way to pick it?" asked Timlin.
Vorden glared at him. "Are you stupid, Timlin? This is a wheel lock like those 
ones on the gates of Darkender Tunnel. Only a Wheel Master is able to open a lock 
like this--and only if he has been trained to open a specific one. And the pattern that 
opens this particular lock has probably been long forgotten. That means no one alive 
could open this, most likely. From what I've heard from Cartlan, wheel locks are so 
tough that you could spin one all day for the rest of your life and still never open it. It 
has to be spun at a certain speed, while an extremely precise amount of pressure is 
applied--and then the wheel must spin for a certain length of time. Trust me, it's 
practically impossible. It's an Olrog creation, and the Grey Dwarves are masters at 
making such devices."
"Then I guess we go back," said Lannon, feeling both tremendously relieved and 
somewhat disappointed. Maybe Lannon's dream had meant nothing after all. Now if 
only they could get back to their quarters without getting caught! 
"Let's go," said Timlin. "I don't like it down here, anyway." The lad continued to 
shiver, his flesh covered in large goose bumps.
"Not even sorcerers can open a wheel lock," said Aldreya, "without knowing the 
process for a specific lock. It just cannot be done."
"But there has to be way!" said Vorden, turning back to the bars.
Lannon found Vorden's refusal to give up bizarre and a bit frightening. What was 
driving Vorden on like this? Clearly they weren't meant to go farther.
Suddenly Vorden turned back to them, his eyes blazing with excitement. "We can 
do this. We can use the Eye of Divinity to open the lock!"
"The Eye of what?" said Aldreya.
Lannon felt a surge of excitement at the prospect, but then it gave way to darker 
feelings. "Maybe we could, Vorden. But the bars were placed here for a reason--to 
keep something from coming through. And it must be something powerful, or they 
would have just used steel or iron. Glaetherin is probably pretty rare. "
"I don't believe those fairy tales," said Vorden. "They used Glaetherin because 
they wanted to keep people from seeing the Divine Essence. Look at it this way, 
Lannon. Something down here killed Kuran Darkender, right? Well, his armor was 
made of Glaetherin. So that metal couldn't stop the evil creatures, anyway. The 
Knights must have destroyed the beasts and put the bars here to keep people out!"
Lannon thought it over, and could not find fault with Vorden's logic. But at the 
moment his thinking wasn't perfectly clear, either. "Maybe you're right," he said. "I'll 
try the Eye. If it works, we'll keep going. But any sign of danger, Vorden--"
"And we turn back of course," Vorden finished. "I'm not a fool, Lannon. I don't 
want to die down here anymore than you do."
"Let's just leave," Timlin said again, peering into the stone cavern beyond the 
bars. "I don't like this at all."
Vorden glowered at him. "At least help Lannon call out the Eye. Then, if you 
want to be a coward, you can go back. But don't you dare get us caught, Timlin! Just 
wait in the shadows somewhere by the door."
"I can't go back in the dark!" said Timlin, shivering.
Vorden shrugged. "Looks like we go on together, then."
"How can we go on?" said Aldreya. "I just told you--no one can open a wheel 
lock without knowing the combination. It is impossible."
The boys took position on either side of Lannon. It took several tries to get their 
words and taps to synchronize, but eventually Lannon's mind split in two and the Eye 
of Divinity came out. He directed it on the lock and the answer was revealed--and 
much more. He glimpsed a mind-numbing process of mathematical calculations, trial 
and error, and sorcery behind it all. He knew exactly what to do.
Lannon stepped forward, applied a slight pressure to the wheel, and gave it a hard 
spin. When the wheel stopped, a click could be heard--very loud and intrusive in the 
stillness of the stone chamber. The gate split, coming partly open.
A moment of silence followed, interrupted only by tense breathing.
Then Vorden whispered, "You actually did it!"
"Goodness!" Aldreya gasped. "How did you do that?"
Lannon shrugged, unsure if he should tell her.
Vorden stepped through the open gate, leaving the others in the shadows. 
Hurriedly they swallowed their fears and followed. The Eye of Divinity probed the 
darkness of the cavern, revealing the echoes of centuries. It gave glimpses far into the 
past--of dark and bloody affairs in vague yet horrifying detail, mingling with the 
moans of the dying in the deep places of the mountain. Olrog pickaxes clanged 
fiercely against the stone, driven by powerful grey-skinned bodies, as dark things 
crept through the caverns and up the mineshafts in search of flesh.
It might have showed Lannon more, but he frantically drew it back inside himself 
and decided it was time to get out of here. The images had been too horrible to be 
ignored. He turned away, pushing Timlin and Aldreya aside, and started back towards 
the gate. But as he left the torchlight behind, the darkness closed around him, gripping 
him to the soul and leaving him helpless. Down here, the dark seemed alive and 
hostile.
With a violent shudder, Lannon turned and raced back to the torchlight.
"What was that all about?" Aldreya said.
"I was just checking behind us for danger," mumbled Lannon, blushing.  
He lacked the courage to face the dark, and so there was no turning back now, 
until Vorden decided it.
The cavern widened some and then split into three tunnels. Vorden gazed at the 
tunnel mouths for several moments, scratching his head, while Lannon, Timlin, and 
Aldreya fidgeted about impatiently. Finally he shrugged helplessly.
"I guess we take the left one."
No one questioned his decision, and they found themselves moving down a long, 
sloping course that eventually leveled off again. They passed the remains of some 
mining tools, including a broken cart and a rusted pickaxe, and piles of rotten rope. 
They also encountered yellowed bones and even a couple of oddly shaped skulls with 
wide teeth.
"Olrog skulls, I'll bet," said Vorden, nodding towards them.
Furlus Goblincrusher's kinfolk, Lannon thought.
At the sight of the skulls, Timlin almost lost his nerve, and stood paralyzed for a 
time while Vorden chastised him.
"Quit being such a coward, Timlin!" Vorden whispered harshly, "and act like a 
Blue Squire for a change. Those skulls are obviously ancient, and who knows how 
they got here? And remember, if you go back--you do it in the dark."
But Vorden's words seemed hollow, and the lad from Gravendar suddenly didn't 
look so confident anymore. His eyes darted back and forth into the shadows, and his 
knuckles were white as he gripped the handle of his axe.
Suddenly the cavern widened into a chamber so large the torchlight could not 
reveal the walls or ceiling of it. The Squires instantly felt exposed in the open space 
around them that was swallowed in darkness. Anything could be watching them from 
the shadows beyond the torchlight--yet they would not be able to see it. Their own 
light source gave them away, making them easy targets.
And at this point Vorden halted, and Lannon could tell by the expression on his 
face he was considering turning back. But then that expression faded into one of 
determination, and he trudged forward into the unknown.
After about a hundred feet they came to a stone wall, and the torchlight revealed 
the very edge of a tunnel mouth to their left. Vorden led them into it. This was a 
crudely hewn tunnel, the walls and floor uneven. The Squires had to be careful not to 
trip. A gloomy, desolate feeling hung in this particular cavern--different somehow, 
more dreadful, than what they had encountered thus far. This tunnel seemed old and 
cramped, leading them into a place where only fools would dare go.
"Vorden, this is crazy!" Lannon whispered. "We can't go on anymore. It's too big 
down here, and the Divine Essence could be anywhere."
"But we must be close," said Vorden. "I think I can feel it somehow. Are we just 
going to leave now, with the Essence somewhere nearby? This might be our only 
chance to ever catch a glimpse of it."
Lannon sighed. "I really don't care anymore. I just want to get out of here. We 
can come back later, when we have more torches and we're better trained. Listen--we 
need to go back right now, before we get ourselves lost or killed! And maybe they've 
already discovered we're missing. We could lose our chance at Knighthood!"
Lannon felt sickened by the whole affair, his mind overridden with gloomy 
thoughts and terror. And yet Vorden seemed so foolishly stubborn. Lannon deeply 
regretted his decision to come down here, and if he could have taken it back and lost 
Vorden's friendship forever, he would have. None of this seemed worth it in the 
least--despite his dream of the Divine Essence. And still Vorden trudged onward, 
holding the only torch. Vaguely Lannon considered making a grab for that torch and 
running. But Vorden held it in a death grip, perhaps anticipating such a maneuver.
Timlin remained silent at this point, obviously overcome by fear. He pressed 
close to Lannon, keeping his eyes fixed on the floor, and he was trembling all over. 
Through all his dismay, Lannon felt extreme irritation over Vorden's selfishness. 
Timlin looked ready to fall apart at any moment, and still Vorden refused to give in.
Aldreya stopped. "I don't think I can go on," she said. "I feel horrible, like I'm 
being smothered down here. Lannon is right, Vorden. We need to get out of this place 
and never come back."
"Get going then," said Vorden, "or stand there and wait. But I'm moving on, and 
that's the way it is."
With a glance into the shadows, Aldreya started moving again. "You're being 
ridiculous, Vorden. What kind of Squire are you? You don't care about anyone but 
yourself. I knew it from the moment I saw you. You think you're superior to everyone 
else!"
Vorden stopped, turning towards her. His mouth hung agape in an exaggerated 
expression. "That's the silliest thing I've ever heard. Have you looked in the mirror 
lately? You're the biggest snob in Dremlock!" With that, he turned and started 
walking again.
"That's not true, Vorden," said Aldreya, in a hurt voice. " I've just been too busy 
to make friends. But what are we even talking about? We need to get out of these 
mines before we get killed!"
The tunnel finally gave way to another round chamber, this one much smaller 
than the last. Six cavern mouths were cut into the walls. Two of them had the remains 
of heavy iron bars across them, which had been bent and ripped in two, leaving large 
holes. Amidst some mining tools, more skulls and bones lay scattered.
"We can't go any farther," Lannon whispered. "We'll get lost. There are too many 
tunnels, Vorden."
"We can't turn back now," Vorden muttered. "One of these tunnels has to lead to 
the Divine Essence. You need to use the Eye again."
Lannon shook his head. "There's no way I'm going to do that." His words could 
not express the horror he felt at that prospect.
"So you're a coward like Timlin," snapped Vorden, raising his voice. He turned 
and stepped close to Lannon, his eyes narrowed with an accusing glare.
"Quiet!" hissed Lannon, backing up a step. "You're being too loud. And I'm not a 
coward. You're just being selfish. I thought you were my friend. If you are, then take 
us back now."
"Look at the bars." Timlin's words were a choked whisper. "Something must 
have..."
"I thought you were brave," said Vorden, still talking above a whisper. He pushed 
closer to Lannon. "But now I know you're just a weakling. You and Timlin are both 
the same. Well, I'm going on with or without you two. And if you try to stop me or 
tell on me..."
Vorden glowered at them, his face red with rage. Then, from the tunnel mouth 
directly behind him something emerged. Lannon caught a glimpse of grey, bumpy 
skin, an enormous pumpkin-shaped head, and oversized hands and feet. Great claws 
scraped the stone floor, and a wide mouth hung open to reveal rows of lumpy teeth 
that looked like bone fragments. A chilling darkness filled the cavern, plunging their 
minds into despair.
Aldreya screamed, while Lannon and Timlin stood in stunned silence. Vorden 
whirled around.
Lannon managed to find his voice, and he cried, "It's an Ogre!" He remembered 
the monstrous breed of Goblin from his book, The Truth about Goblins. Ogres were 
intelligent by Goblin standards and had poisonous claws. They were night stalkers 
who preferred to strike quickly from the shadows. They could feed until they swelled 
up to twice their normal size.
The creature lunged towards Vorden. Vorden recovered from his surprise and 
tried to swing his axe, but the creature's shovel-sized hand batted the weapon aside 
and it clanged to the floor. Vorden was lifted into the air and wrapped in a bear hug, 
pulled fiercely against the giant’s barrel chest. 
Vorden's bones started to crack and he screamed, dropping the torch--which 
continued to provide light for a scene Lannon didn’t want to view but couldn’t rip his 
gaze away from. Vorden would be crushed to death in a matter of seconds.
Lannon stood paralyzed, watching Vorden's life end in this those gnarled grey 
arms. He couldn't bring himself to even breathe--let alone fight or flee. Months of 
rigid training suddenly seemed meaningless. His sword dangled uselessly from his 
hand, and vaguely, somewhere in the back of his mind, he thought he wasn't Knightly 
material and should never have been chosen as a Squire.
But help for Vorden came from a most unlikely source. A swift shadow darted 
past Lannon and then a long, curved dagger sliced deep into the Ogre’s arm. It was 
Timlin--the smallest and (seemingly) least courageous of all the Squires. 
"Let him go!" Timlin howled, ripping the Flayer along the Ogre’s arm and laying 
bare some of the flesh within.
With a roar, the Ogre dropped Vorden to the floor and swiped at Timlin. The 
Ogre's hand lashed out in a blur, and Lannon cringed, certain Timlin's head would be 
smashed from his shoulders. But the lad somehow managed to duck the blow and 
dove between the monster's legs. The Ogre turned to attack him, but Timlin scrambled 
up and ran around it towards Lannon. His eyes were blazing with a wild mix of terror 
and determination.
The Ogre ignored Timlin--save for a roar of irritation in his direction--and it knelt 
over Vorden, licking its lips hungrily. It bent down, its teeth ready to tear into 
Vorden's throat. Vorden tried to move, but the Ogre pinned him with one hand.
"It's going to kill him!" Aldreya screamed.
Timlin grabbed Lannon's cloak, nearly yanking him off balance. "He's going to 
eat him!" Timlin yelled. "Help me save him, Lannon!"
Timlin's words jarred Lannon into action, and he raised his sword, struggling to 
remember his training. Yet there was little time for recollections. In an instant, 
Vorden's throat would be ripped open by those fragmented teeth.
The two Squires charged the Ogre. It glanced up at them with its round black 
eyes and snarled. Timlin reached it first and tried to stab the beast in the chest, but the 
Ogre caught the lad with a lazy blow to his side that knocked him halfway across the 
room. Lannon drove his dragon-bone sword at the creature's head, but it was a poor 
thrust and the weapon merely glanced away from the thick skull, leaving only a small 
gash.
The force of his thrust threw Lannon forward--nearly into the Ogre's lap. The 
beast caught his shoulder with one hand and shoved him away. Lannon tumbled 
across the stone floor, striking his head and almost blacking out.
Again the Ogre bent down to feed. Then a searing ball of green fire struck its 
chest, knocking the beast over. Calmly Aldreya walked into the room. She was 
holding forth her stone dagger, which was engulfed in flames. She drew it back again 
and flung another green fireball at the Ogre--this time striking its shoulder where the 
beast lay. The Ogre growled in pain and clawed at its blackened wounds, but then it 
leapt up from the floor, preparing to crush the foolish Birlote girl who had dared burn 
its flesh so painfully.
Then a clanking sound arose. Something or someone was moving down one of 
the tunnels. The Ogre paused, listening. Then it lifted Vorden's axe from the floor. 
The double-bladed battle axe looked like a small hatchet in its hand. Due to the length 
of its claws, it grasped the weapon in a clumsy manner, and it held the axe more like a 
club than an edged weapon.
Out into the torchlight emerged a stocky Olrog in dark plate armor. A horned 
helm protected his head, with only a small portion of his bearded face, including two 
fierce grey eyes, visible. In one hand he held a broadsword, and slung across his other 
arm was a dark shield engraved with runes. He carried a burning torch, which he cast 
down upon entering. Like a walking fortress, this Dark Knight strode into the 
chamber and charged the Ogre.
With a roar, the monster met the Knight's charge with one of its own. It swung 
Vorden's axe at the Knight's head. But the Knight deflected the blow with his shield, 
and his broadsword caught the Ogre's shoulder, staggering the beast and finally taking 
it down. The Ogre tried to get up again, but the Knight drove the rune-covered shield 
into its chest, knocking it backwards. Then his broadsword hurtled down against the 
Ogre's skull, splitting it open. The Ogre still sought to regain its footing, while one 
long and crooked arm snaked out. The Ogre seized the Knight's leg and gave a yank. 
The Knight fell backwards to the floor with a clatter of plate mail.
Lannon and Timlin sat up and watched the battle, throbbing with pain from their 
blows, and from where he lay on the floor, Vorden was also watching. As they saw 
the Knight go down, their hopes sank. 
The Ogre leapt towards the fallen Knight, swinging the axe. But again the Knight 
deflected the blow with his shield, lashing out with his broadsword at the same time 
and striking the monster's leg, ripping flesh from bone. The Ogre twisted sideways 
from the impact and then fell forward. The Knight just managed to roll out of the way 
as the monster slumped to the cavern floor. The Knight staggered up and drove his 
broadsword down against the Ogre's head again, and this time its skull was shattered. 
The beast stopped moving.
The Knight stood still for a moment, panting hard from exertion, watching the 
dead Ogre. At last he turned to the others and spoke in a gruff voice. "Well, look what 
trouble you've brought upon yourselves, young Squires."
The Knight bent over Vorden and studied him carefully. "You look somewhat 
pale. Take a good knock, did you? How's your breathing?"
"I'm okay," said Vorden. "My ribs hurt, and my back. I think I can walk, though. 
I just need to get back to my room."
The Knight turned to the others. "And what about you three?"
Timlin groaned and stood up shakily. "I don't care if we get in trouble. I just want 
to get out of here. Can you take us out of this place?"
The Knight nodded. "I can and I will."
Blood ran down Lannon's forehead from the gash where he'd struck the floor, and 
he wiped it away before it got in his eyes. He stared at the fallen Ogre, his mind 
swallowed in dark thoughts. His soul seemed frozen within him.
"Take us out of here," he said quietly.
"In moment, I will," said the Knight. "But I want to make sure you've learned 
your lessons. I'm not going to report you to the High Council, because I think you're 
brave Squires--though certainly foolish--and that you're a credit to my kingdom in 
some ways. But before I let you go, I'm going to show you a few things about the 
Mines--and then you'll understand why you should never venture down here. First, 
though, we’ve got to close that gate you opened." He gave them a hard stare.
"We've seen enough," said Lannon. "We'll never come back here."
"We just want to leave!" said Timlin.
"Please take us to the East Tower," said Aldreya, and her soft green eyes made 
the Knight hesitate for a moment.
Vorden kept quiet, holding his ribs and watching the Knight.
The Knight shook his head. "You're not getting off that easily, Squires. Now get 
up and follow me, if you know what's good for you!"
After going back and closing the gate, the three Squires followed the Knight into 
the tunnel from which he'd first come. The Dark Knight strode along at a swift pace, 
and the others had to struggle to keep up. Vorden especially had difficulty due to his 
damaged ribs. But the Knight showed him no mercy and marched on through the 
stone cavern without slowing.
"My name is Garndon Steelbreaker," he said. "I am a Guardian of the East 
Tower, put here to defend it against the creatures that would rise against Dremlock."
"What Color are you?" said Vorden.
"I belong to no color class," said Garndon. "Once I was Red, but now I bear no 
color. I am a Guardian, and I seldom leave these tunnels to see the light of day. That's 
the way it will be until I retire from Knighthood. What are your names, by the way? 
Yes--I can read. But I want to hear you speak them."
They gave them in full.
Garndon chuckled in amusement. "I like Flameblade, Sunshield, and Silverhawk, 
but Woodmaster is a little odd. Sounds more like someone who fells trees for a living 
instead of the last name of a Divine Squire!"
He stopped and turned to them, raising an eyebrow. "How were you able to get 
past the gate? No one should have been able to pass through, with that old wheel lock 
defending it. Even I can't open that gate." 
"Lannon did it," Timlin said, pointing. "He used the Eye of Divinity to solve the 
lock. I just followed him."
Lannon glared at Timlin.
"The Eye of Divinity..." The Knight spoke the words slowly. "Then it is very 
fortunate indeed that I happened along and heard the sounds of battle. Few Knights in 
the long history of Dremlock have ever possessed that great gift. And yet you waste it 
on foolhardy pursuits!" He turned away and began walking again.
Lannon's face burned hot, so overcome with shame was he. He felt deep 
annoyance at Timlin for telling on him so quickly, and it led him to wonder if Timlin 
would tell Garrin about what they'd done.
Suddenly the tunnel widened and two more branched off--to the right and left, 
while up ahead stood a large iron door. The door had a small, barred window in it. 
Garndon produced a ring of keys and unlocked the door.
"We go now into the Dark Dungeon," he said grimly. "Prepare yourselves for the 
sights I will soon show you."
Timlin froze and would not move.
"Come on," Vorden said, pulling on Timlin's cloak.
"We need to follow him, Timlin," Lannon said. "It's for our own good."
"Just do as Garndon says," Aldreya whispered to him. "We'll be okay."
The Knight pointed at Timlin. "Show courage, little Squire. Follow me now, or 
face the loss of your future Knighthood." With that, he turned and passed through the 
doorway.
Lannon followed without looking back. All he cared about now was saving his 
career at Dremlock, of doing things the right way from now on and becoming a great 
Knight. Timlin would have to make his own choice.
But Timlin didn't get to choose, because Vorden--though he winced in pain from 
the effort--dragged Timlin through the doorway.
Garndon closed it behind them.
Dungeon cells lined a stone hall before them. Dark waves of despair washed over 
the Squires immediately, choking their minds. The presence of the Deep Shadow was 
strong here. Growls, hideous feasting sounds, and a quiet hiss like water sizzling on a 
hot stovetop could be head coming from the cells. Another Knight stood near a door 
at the far end, and like Garndon, he was a stout looking Grey Dwarf adorned in dark 
plate mail. He carried a battle axe and a round shield.
"Brought us a few sneaks, Garndon?" said the Knight at the hall's end. "I can't 
believe my eyes!"
Garndon nodded. "They solved the wheel lock. It’s the Eye of Divinity at work, 
believe it or not. Anyway, I'm going to show them a few things, Saferus. Teach them 
a lesson or two about why they need to stay out here."
"Smart lads to beat that old lock," said Saferus, shaking his head. "Even with the 
Eye of Divinity. I've never heard the like of it. But now we'll see what they're actually 
made of."
The Squires didn't like the sound of that, and they hesitated.
"One of the reasons you should never come here," said Garndon, "is because the 
Iracus Trees grow down here--Black Mothers in the mountain that spawn powerful 
Goblins like that Ogre. These mines are infested with them. But something else lurks 
down here as well--a thing that possesses the bodies of other creatures. It may have 
been what slew Kuran Darkender so long ago. Who can say? There are too many 
hidden caverns and deep places we cannot get to. There's an ongoing war down here. 
There has been ever since the Old Keep was built. And now I'm going to show you a 
few prisoners of that war, which we keep locked up to study their weaknesses."
With that, Garndon walked to the first of the cells on the right. "Come have a 
look, Squires, at my little friend that I named Graxnul."
Fearfully the Squires approached, with Vorden still dragging Timlin along. They 
stood well clear of the bars and peered through.
A huge Cave Troll--much bigger than the Ogre they had faced--sat within, 
gnawing a bone. It glanced up at them and growled, then went back to its feast. Like 
the Ogre, it had grey, bumpy skin and a massive round head, but its shoulders were 
much broader and its body far more heavily muscled. Unlike the more human-looking 
Ogre, the Troll had a nose like a pig snout and a mouth full of crooked fangs.
"Graxnul is a mighty Troll," said Garndon, with a touch of pride in his voice. "I 
keep him well fed. The more a Troll eats, the stronger he becomes, and the harder his 
flesh and bones grow, until they become almost impenetrable by ordinary weapons. 
You're lucky you ran into a half-starved Ogre. Graxnul here would've killed all four of 
you without blinking an eye--if Troll's had eyelids to blink!" He motioned to the 
Troll, calling him over.
Immediately the Troll stood up and walked forward, clutching the bone like a 
weapon. His arms and chest were massive, his skin deep grey in hue and almost scaly. 
He gazed at the Squires with his black eyes, and raised the bone menacingly. But 
Garndon stopped him with a motion of his hand.
"Not too close, Graxnul."
The Troll continued to stand there motionless. Then slowly he lifted the bone to 
his fang-filled mouth and started gnawing again.
"He's like your pet!" Timlin remarked. The skinny lad was still shaking, but he 
managed a smile.
"Old Graxnul isn't so bad," said Garndon. "He won't attack me, because I keep 
him fed and I'm good to him. I'd get him to fight for me if the Sacred Laws didn't 
forbid it. But come, now. I have other sights to show you."
Garndon moved down to the third cell on the right.
"See, Timlin, that wasn't so bad," whispered Vorden. "Now come on."
The Squires followed him to the cell, and what they saw within made their hearts 
freeze. Timlin tried to flee, but this time Garndon grabbed him. 
"None of that, boy," the Dark Knight said gruffly.
Inside the cell was vaguely humanoid shape. It had crooked arms twice as long as 
a man's legs that ended in clusters of barbed claws. Its flesh was brown and slimy, and 
wormy things seemed to crawl upon the surface of it. Its head was rodent-like in 
shape, with bat-like ears and two huge, curved yellow fangs that hung down from its 
mouth. Its nose was a wolf-like, wrinkled snout that dripped fluid. Hanging from its 
arms were folds of bony skin like half-developed bat wings.
When it saw the Squires, it went insane, hurling itself against the bars of 
Glaetherin and trying to rip them apart. Its mouth opened wide and pressed against the 
bars, its fangs seeking fruitlessly to dig into the metal. Its stench was unbearable--not 
its physical stench (which was quite bad in its own right) but the stench of evil and 
despair that radiated from it. The monster had no eyes, just leathery skin where the 
eyes should have been.
The four Squires shrank back. The other Knight, Saferus, ran over and helped 
hold them in place.
"Get a good look!" muttered Garndon. "And be thankful you met a starving Ogre 
and not one of these Bloodfangs. They'd tear the flesh from your bones before you 
knew what hit you, and leave you drained of blood. It took five Knights to get a net 
over this thing and hold it, and one lost his arm in the process!"
Garndon and Saferus yanked the Squires away and herded them to the last cell on 
the left. Inside this one was dark shape with sickly yellow eyes. It was a black 
serpent-like thing that slithered around inside the cell and hissed, yet its head was 
disturbingly humanoid in shape. It pressed that head against the bars, trying to 
squeeze through, revealing two stark-white fangs and a pink, forked tongue.
"A Pit Crawler," said Garndon, shaking his head. "If it were up to me, I'd put my 
sword to its skull and be done with it. These horrors lurk in the dark places, and their 
bite is deadly poison. I've seen good men--stout Knights of Dremlock--die in 
unbelievable agony from a single bite because they blundered into the wrong places. 
We're trying to find an antidote to that poison, but we're not having much luck."
Tears rolled down Timlin's cheeks. "Get us out of here, Garndon. We've learned 
our lesson. I promise!"
"And have you learned yours?" said Garndon, gazing sternly at Vorden from 
beneath his helm. "I can tell you're a hard one--like I was at your age."
"I have," said Vorden. "But tell me one thing--where is the Divine Essence? 
That's the only reason we came down here. I have to see it!"
"I suspected as much," said Garndon. "But the Divine Essence can't be reached 
from here anymore. It's been sealed off permanently. There is another way to get to it, 
but I won't tell you how. Now it's time to be going."
Garndon led them back through the tunnels to the door with the wheel lock. "Do 
your thing, boy," he said to Lannon.
With his nerves so badly on edge and the Knight looking on, it took Lannon a lot 
of effort to summon the Eye of Divinity, but with the help of his friends he finally 
managed it. Once Lannon had unlocked the door, Garndon motioned them onward. 
"Now get going and don't come back here--ever. And keep your mouths shut about 
what you saw down here. If word gets out--and goodness knows there are enough 
rumors floating around up there from what I hear--I'll have you all banished from 
Dremlock forever."
The Squires nodded and hurried through.
"And that especially goes for you!" He pointed a finger at Timlin. "I know your 
kind. Keep your mouth shut, or it will be the worse for you!"
Meekly, Timlin avoided the Knight's gaze, keeping his sight fixed on the floor. "I 
promise I'll never say a word to anyone."
Garndon slammed the bars shut behind them. "Good riddance!"
Lannon licked his fingers and cleaned dried blood from his forehead. Surely they 
were going to get caught, he thought to himself. They'd been gone too long, and they 
still had to sneak back to their quarters without being seen. Yet if they could just 
make it out of Old Keep and lock the door, no one might ever suspect they'd gone this 
way. That, at least, could save them from being banished.
The horror of what they'd experienced clung to them like icy fingers. It seemed to 
reach forth from the mines beneath Old Keep, desiring to yank them back into the 
dark places below. They trembled--even Vorden--as they raced ahead, determined 
never to return here as long as they lived. 
They locked the door to Old Keep again, and placed the Birlote torch back in its 
holder on the wall. Then they crept upstairs.
Aldreya assured the boys that she often returned this late from her training and 
the other girls she bunked with would think nothing of it. "Grey Squires have lots of 
freedom," she whispered. "And we train at odd hours. Sometimes I stay up later than 
this in the Library or the Dark Rooms."
"What are the Dark Rooms?" the boys questioned.
"Never mind," she said. "There are many secrets in this tower--like the Watcher. 
Even now I wonder if he saw us. It seems unlikely he could have missed us--or at 
least missed you three.  Actually, I guess I shouldn't have mentioned him, either. But 
what's done is done, I suppose."
"Who is the Watcher?" the boys asked.
"Goodnight!" said Aldreya. "That was wretched, and I hope I never go anywhere 
with you three again." With that, she entered her quarters.
Chapter 10:  Child of Winter
On the following day, the Squires said little to each other, with Lannon and 
Vorden spending most of their time meditating on healing their minor injuries 
inflicted by the Ogre. By using that Knightly healing technique, which was drawn 
from the power locked within their own minds rather than from any type of sorcery, 
they were able to make the injuries fade very quickly.
Later, Garrin joined them for dinner in the Hall, and they had to struggle to act 
natural around him--something Vorden excelled at, while Lannon and Timlin seemed 
rigid and quiet. But Garrin appeared to take little notice of them, as he was busy 
chatting with some of the other Squires--except at one point when he looked up, gave 
them a strange, piercing stare that made their hearts lurch, and then resumed his 
conversations. They gulped down dinner and headed back to their room.
When training began the next day, Lannon and Timlin felt fine, but Vorden was 
still a bit sore in the ribs--indicating the damage had been more severe than he'd 
thought. But he was able to compensate for it and give a fair effort. At one point 
Cartlan asked about the small bump and cut on Lannon's head (barely noticeable 
though it was) and Lannon replied that he'd suffered an accident and left it at that. 
Cartlan didn't press the issue, and by the end of the day, things looked like they would 
turn out fine.
But Lannon had another issue to deal with. He'd unlocked the Eye of Divinity 
and was supposed to tell Garrin immediately. Yet because their ordeal in Old Keep 
was so fresh in his mind, he decided to wait until he was sure he could trust himself to 
look Garrin in the eye and not blurt out what had happened in the mines. Also, it had 
taken him this long to accomplish the task, and so what would another few days 
matter? Besides, he hadn't actually done it on his own. He thought maybe he should 
wait until he could call it forth by himself before telling Garrin.
But after only a week, to Lannon's disbelief, Vorden again began pressuring him 
to break the rules. It was evening, their training done for the day, and they were in the 
Library seated at a table. The Library was a round chamber that was modeled, 
according to a plaque on the wall, after the famous Round Library of the North 
Tower. The bookshelves completely covered the walls, all the way up to the ceiling. 
Statues of Knights, Dragons, and Goblins stood within, big and small--with some 
holding books or leering down from the shelves. There was a stone fireplace with 
wood stacked next to it, and four Birlote torches on the walls. The only other door 
(besides the main entrance) bore a wooden sign that said:
OLD EAST LIBRARY.
NO ONE MAY ENTER WITHOUT PERMISSION FROM
THE EAST TOWER MASTER
Timlin was humming to himself in his annoying fashion, and looking at a book of 
artwork depicting Lord Knights throughout the ages. Lannon was reading a book from 
the library called Fairy Goblins--Do They Exist? written by a former Lord Knight 
named Eldrich Hawkshield. Vorden had an ancient, leather-bound book in front of 
him called The Dragons of Tharnin, which he had not yet opened.
"I have an idea," Vorden said suddenly. He looked around, making sure the 
library was empty of eavesdroppers, and then continued. "I think I know how we 
could see the Divine Essence." He spoke casually, as if talking about the day's 
weather.
Lannon's mouth hung open for a moment. Then he shook his head, his face 
flushing crimson with anger. "Vorden, what are you talking about? After what I went 
through in those mines, you think I'd be stupid enough to follow you anywhere 
again?" He closed his book and laid it on the table.
"I'm sorry about that," said Vorden. "And I take all the blame, Lannon. I could 
have gotten us killed, or ruined our chance at Knighthood. It was a really stupid thing 
to do. And do you know why it was stupid? Because I should have asked around first, 
researched the issue a bit. Well, I've done that, and guess what? I think I know an easy 
way to get to the Divine Essence."
"I don't care!" Lannon said. "Whatever you have in mind, forget it. After what I 
saw in those mines..."
"We don't have to go into the mines," said Vorden. "I've learned that the way to 
the Essence is through the Temple itself. There's a passage right under the altar that 
leads down to a wheel lock. Beyond that locked door is the crystal chamber."
"Well, go ahead and find out," said Lannon. "But I'm not going." He stared back 
at Vorden with determination. This was a moment he had dreaded--having to say no 
to his friend. But he'd decided never to back down from anyone again if his future 
Knighthood was at stake. He imagined Cordus Landsaver nodding with approval at 
his decision, and he held fast to that image, drawing strength from it. 
Vorden sighed. "You know I can't open a wheel lock, Lannon. If you don't go 
with me, I have to give up."
"Maybe you should give up," said Lannon. "You're good at a lot of things, 
Vorden. You could be a great Knight. Don't waste it chasing a foolish dream."
Vorden's face burned with anger. "So the Divine Essence is just a foolish dream? 
Maybe to you it is. But to me it means everything."
Lannon gulped, and glanced towards the door. "Don't talk so loud. Someone 
might be coming. Anyways, I didn't mean it that way. I just meant that there's a reason 
we're not allowed to see the Essence. Even Master Garrin has never seen it. We 
shouldn't break rules we don't understand."
"But others besides Lord Knights have seen it," said Vorden. "And I can prove it 
right here and now."
"It's getting late," said Lannon. "We should head to our quarters. I'm supposed to 
be doing my Eye of Divinity training."
"Hold on" Vorden said. "This will just take a moment. Timlin, go stand by the 
doorway and watch for anyone in the hall."
Timlin rose and did as he was told, peeking around the doorway. "It's all clear, 
Vorden," he said.
Vorden opened the book in front of him and leafed through the pages. Then he 
began to read aloud.
So it was that I, Logan Firehand, broke the Sacred Laws and ventured forth to 
that chamber that holds the Divine One. I bear the Eye of Dreams, and I have become 
the seeker of lost relics. In one shining moment, I solved the wheel lock below the 
Temple's altar and made it to the chamber of crystal.
The Divine One was more beautiful than the light that warms our world each 
morning, and my heart was seemingly cleansed of all shadow--save for my deep 
desire to obtain the ultimate source of power that lies within those cursed hills. I was 
shown how to use my gift, how to reach my true potential. And I was warned to make 
use of that gift for noble purposes or pay a dreadful price.
Am I then a selfish man? An ignorer of gods? Will I eventually pay dearly for my 
folly? I cannot truly say if I am on the proper path. It is said that to meddle with the 
Deep Shadow is to invite doom into the heart and madness into the mind. Yet I have 
done so, and my sanity appears to remain intact.
The real question is whether or not I am using my gift in a noble fashion.
I believe the seeking of facts is indeed a noble task, for all of humanity benefits 
from the results in one form or another. However, shadows of doubt remain.
Here, in the first of seven books, I shall attempt to reveal the workings of the 
Dark Realm of Tharnin (that hated place called the Deep Shadow) beginning with the 
Dragons, for they, widely considered the most powerful of all Goblins, represent the 
Hand of Tharnin, which crushes life... 
Vorden stopped reading and closed the book. "Okay, so you get the point. This 
Knight broke the rules and visited the Essence. And it helped him. So it could 
probably help you, too, Lannon. It might even teach you about the Eye of Divinity."
Lannon sat in silence. Had the Divine Essence actually spoken to that Knight and 
given him assistance? Was it simply a matter of sneaking down through the Temple to 
the crystal chamber? He glanced about. The Goblin statues seemed to leer at him in 
accusation, as if they were judging him--as if the books they held were tomes of law. 
He suddenly felt like he was being watched, and goose bumps flooded his back. He 
quickly turned his attention back to Vorden. 
"Where did you get that book?" Lannon asked. "It doesn't seem like the Knights 
would want anyone to know about that."
"I borrowed it from in there," said Vorden, pointing toward the door marked Old 
East Library. "I picked the lock yesterday and poked around in there. Its full of old, 
dusty books that look pretty boring. This one mentioned Dragons, so I glanced 
through it and found that part I just read to you."
Lannon glanced around nervously. "Put it back," he said. "If someone comes 
along and sees it..."
"That's what Timlin is watching for," said Vorden "But even if I'm caught with 
this, I'll just say I found it on the shelves in here. Who can prove otherwise? How 
would they know I'm the one that moved it from the Old Library?"
"What has happened to you?" said Lannon. "When I first got here, you talked 
about wanting to be like Kuran Darkender and live honorably. But now look at the 
things you're doing, Vorden. You're going to end up getting tossed out."
Vorden sighed. "It's the Divine Essence, Lannon. I just can't stop thinking about 
it. And I'm not the only one. Aldreya told me she dreamt of it too. She wanted to 
know when I was going to try to find it again, so she could come with me. She told 
me she believes the Essence is calling to her, that it will teach her to unlock her full 
potential. She practically begged me to accompany her on a quest to find it!"
Lannon's eyes widened. "You must be kidding."
Vorden shook his head. "I can't believe it either. I thought she'd never want to 
hang around with us again."
"But what if she's setting us up?" said Lannon.
"She isn't," said Vorden. "I'm certain of it. She might be a bit of a snob, but right 
now she's pretty desperate. You should have seen the look in her eyes! There's no way 
she would tell on us. I think she's afraid of what's happening here at Dremlock, 
Lannon."
"So am I," Lannon admitted. "Every day I hear something new about how bad off 
Dremlock is--usually from you."
"Sorry," said Vorden. "I just like to keep you informed."
"I know," said Lannon. "And I'm glad you do. I just never expected this. I grew 
up believing Dremlock was the best place in all the land. It's still kind of like that, but 
there are a lot of problems here, I guess. It's hard to explain."
"I know exactly what you're talking about," said Vorden. "I expected shining 
towers and honorable Knights--white horses and good deeds, that sort of thing. I 
visited Bellis when I was younger, before my parents died. We were passing through 
on our way to Silverland. And you know what? That's exactly how Bellis is--like the 
grand kingdom you would always imagine. So I thought Dremlock would be even 
better. But it has a dark side to it, and I can't help but wonder if this place has seen 
better days."
"Yeah, it's definitely going sour," said a boy.
Lannon and Vorden jumped up, looking around. Someone was hiding behind a 
Goblin statue, with just the edge of his brown cloak visible.
"Who's there?" Vorden said. The lad from Gravendar had gone pale.
Out from behind the statue stepped a tall boy with bright blond hair, fair skin, and 
blue eyes. It was Jerret Dragonsbane, the Red Squire Lannon and Timlin had met very 
briefly outside the Temple on the first day they'd visited there with Garrin.
From behind another statue stepped a big, dark-haired lad. He had a pointy chin 
and a hook nose, and also wore a red sash. They recognized him as Clayith Ironback, 
a quiet Squire who was usually somewhat of a loner.
"What are you two doing here?" Vorden said.  "Shouldn't you be in the West 
Tower this time of the evening?"
"We came to look at some books," said Jerret. "It was Clayith's idea, actually. He 
wanted to read about potions or poisons or something. Anyways, we heard you guys 
coming, so we ducked behind those statues to eavesdrop on you."
Clayith gave a crooked grin. "Yeah, we wanted to eavesdrop."
"Well, what of it?" said Vorden. "Now I guess you know we're up to something. 
So what are you going to do about it?"
Jerret shook his head and smiled. "Nothing, Vorden. I couldn't care less what you 
do--except that I'd like to get in on it. If you're actually going try to get a look at the 
Divine Essence, count me in."
"And me, too," said Clayith, still giving an odd grin.
Vorden was thoughtful for a moment. "You're a good friend, Jerret. And Clayith's 
alright, I guess."
"I wouldn't tell on you," said Clayith, with a chuckle. His grin broadened. "I like 
you, Vorden."
Vorden laughed. "I'll think it over, and let you know later."
"Vorden, I already told you..." said Lannon. His words sounded weak, and he 
knew his resolve had crumbled some. But if he ended up agreeing to go, the thought 
of taking two more Squires along did not please him at all. He could trust Vorden and 
Timlin, and possibly even Aldreya, yet he knew little about these two Squires--
especially Jerret, who seemed somewhat cocky and was hard to figure out. Clayith, 
however, had always struck Lannon as being exceptionally polite, kind-hearted, and 
shy. Lannon had liked him from the first moment he'd met him at the training 
grounds. Yet could he be trusted? There was no way of knowing at this time.
"At least consider it, Lannon," said Vorden. "You know we can't do this without 
you--if there is actually a wheel lock down there. So if you don't go, the whole thing 
is done with. I want to go, and so do Jerret, Clayith, and Aldreya."
"And me!" whispered Timlin, from the doorway. "From what you said, it doesn't 
sound very dangerous--if it's just beneath the Temple."
"We'll see," Lannon said reluctantly. Again he glanced about, still feeling like 
they were being watched. Here they were, in the Library, discussing a plan to violate 
the Sacred Laws--with two more Squires eager to jump in on the action. The whole 
situation seemed very risky and ready to blow up in their faces. Couldn't Vorden see 
that, or had his desire to visit the Divine Essence become so strong it had clouded his 
judgment? 
"We can talk about it tomorrow," mumbled Lannon, experiencing a deep urge to 
get away from this scene. "But don't get your hopes up, Vorden."
With that, Lannon left the library and headed upstairs. As he passed through the 
shadowy halls, a deep sadness and anxiety filled him. What had happened to his 
dreams of being a valiant Knight in a grand kingdom? Where was the nobility and the 
glory? He'd been here less than a year, and already he'd become a law-breaker in a 
kingdom where things seemed to be falling apart (if one could believe the countless 
rumors). He felt isolated and detached, floating free and lacking direction. He had 
always imagined Dremlock would be a place where everything was in solid order, 
where everyone knew where they stood and laws and rules were set in stone. Now he 
was seeing a place where the darkness and light seemed melded together, where 
devious plots were hatched while Knights were too busy or too reluctant to take 
notice. It disturbed him to think of what they had gotten away with so easily already. 
What else was going on here that went unnoticed by the Tower Masters? Just how 
deeply had Dremlock decayed?
The answer seemed to come to him later that night in a dream. He dreamt of the 
kingdom, and it appeared Dremlock was balanced on the edge of a dagger, with the 
flames of doom burning on either side. The wind howled down the mountainside, 
bringing winter's breath and blowing it into his soul. The snow became as thick as the 
Northern Hills, and shards of ice the size of continents shifted about, changing the 
face of the land. The ice became unstable, cracking and lurching, creating pockets 
deep within the stone, earth, snow, and mossy ruin. From out of that ice came a 
shadowy hand, reaching out over the land and growing ever larger.
"I am the Child of Winter," a voice said. "I lived even before the world was 
warmed, when nothing existed but the timeless ice."
For a moment Lannon was helpless within that grasp. All the struggles of life 
seemed pointless, and he longed for things to return to the purity and timelessness of 
before which the voice spoke of. Then the infinite darkness swallowed him and he 
realized the Shadow was indeed deeper than he could have ever imagined, even 
deeper than despair itself. There could be no return from such a void.
Eyes appeared in the darkness, crazed and piercing, burning into his soul. The 
eyes seemed all too familiar, and then he remembered the statue upon the hilltop, 
amid the ruins of Serenlock Castle. They were the eyes of Tenneth Bard, the Black 
Knight. A hand, bound in a steel gauntlet, reached forth to claim Lannon's soul.
"I've come for you, Lannon," Tenneth Bard whispered. "Soon you will wish you 
had died down there in Old Keep."
***
Lannon awoke from the nightmare, chilled yet sweating, with one clear 
realization in mind. Only the Divine Essence could exist beyond the grasp of the evil. 
Lannon could trust no one else, for the Deep Shadow was a clever foe, and could 
seize a person's soul before they realized what was happening.
When he fell asleep again, much later, he dreamt of the wondrous light in the 
crystal chamber. Again the Essence spoke to him, demanding he come to it, telling 
him it would share its secrets with him.
"Come to me swiftly!" it urged, "or all will be lost."
When Lannon awoke in the morning, that sense of urgency remained with him. 
He considered telling Garrin or Taris everything, but then decided that would 
undoubtedly ruin any chance he had of ever visiting the Divine Essence. They were 
great Knights, who had worked hard to gain their positions, and they would be very 
reluctant to break the Sacred Laws over a mere dream. 
Yet Lannon knew he must go. His fears, however dark, must be put aside forever, 
until he attained his goal. The Deep Shadow thrived within Dremlock. No one 
doubted that. And Lannon had grown paranoid during the winter months, wondering 
if a simple stare in his direction was sinister in nature or if a shadowy figure on the 
wooded trail at dusk would mean his doom. His friends felt it too. The rumors had 
gotten to them as well, and like Lannon, they too looked to Dremlock's god-king for 
help.
He needed to know more about the Eye of Divinity and how it could combat the 
evil. He needed to know if there was anyone left in Dremlock he could trust. And he 
needed to know just what his destiny was.
Kuran Darkender had dreamt of the Divine Essence. He had acted on that dream, 
and Dremlock Kingdom had been born.
Only the Divine Essence could give Lannon the answers he sought.
Chapter 11:  The Fire and the Shadow
Four days passed after Lannon's dream, and still Vorden made no specific plans 
to visit the Divine Essence. The tables had turned, and now Lannon was the one 
trying to persuade Vorden to go. Yet Vorden seemed detached and uninterested in 
anything but his training. Meanwhile, Lannon grew ever more impatient. The dream 
stayed fresh in his mind, and each night in his sleep he believed he could feel the 
Divine Essence calling to him, demanding he come to it. His need to visit the god-
king became overwhelming, crushing any lingering doubts or fears.
"Why are we waiting so long?" Lannon finally asked Vorden one evening. "We 
should get this over with."
Vorden shook his head. "Something's wrong, Lannon. Why would Jerret and 
Clayith want to go with us? They can't really sneak out of their quarters like we can, 
because they bunk with the other Squires. Jerret might be brash enough to try it, but 
Clayith--that's just not like him. I have a bad feeling about this."
"So we're not going?" Lannon shook his head. "This is ridiculous, Vorden. Now 
that I'm all ready and everything, you change your mind."
"What are you talking about?" said Vorden. "You're the one who didn't want to 
do this. What changed your mind?"
Lannon shrugged. "It's not important." He didn't know if he should tell Vorden of 
his dream or not, but he doubted it would make any difference either way. Vorden did 
things to suite his own needs.
"Why not go without them?" said Timlin. "We could go tonight, and they'd never 
know about it." He seemed strangely eager to try this adventure, considering how 
terrified he'd been down in the mines.
"That's a great idea!" said Lannon.
"No, it isn't," said Vorden. "They might have already told on us, and then 
someone might be waiting at the Temple to catch us sneaking in. I want to see the 
Divine Essence as bad as you do, Lannon. Maybe more so, since I came up with the 
idea. But I think we need to wait a while--maybe even a month or two."
"A month?" said Lannon. "I can't wait a month!"
Vorden gave him a piercing stare. "What's wrong with you, Lannon? You don't 
seem like yourself lately."
Lannon thought about it. He certainly didn't feel like himself. He felt scared and 
isolated, overflowing with anxiety. He needed to talk to someone he could trust, and 
the only one he could think of was the Divine Essence, which he felt was the answer 
to all his problems. He had seen nothing of Taris or Furlus lately, and Garrin seemed 
distant, as if he had much on his mind.
"Alright," Lannon said, swallowing hard. "I guess we wait."
Vorden nodded. "What else can we do?"
Even as Vorden finished that statement, the door to their room was yanked open 
and in stepped Jerret and Clayith. They wore armor and weapons (which was 
perfectly acceptable in Dremlock--and even encouraged, since the Knights wanted the 
Squires to get used to such adornments). It was snowing hard outside, and they were 
covered in heavy flakes and panting hard. 
Jerret nodded to them, grinning.
For a moment there was total silence in the room, and nobody moved. Then Jerret 
fixed his gaze on Vorden.
"So are we doing this or not, Vorden? I'm tired of waiting."
"I don't think so," said Vorden, choosing his words carefully. Casually he 
signaled to Timlin--a hand sign the Squires had just recently learned that meant 
passage check. Timlin hopped up and went to the door, peering out. He gave a quick 
signal back indicating the hallway was clear.
This bit of silent communication had not gone unnoticed by Jerret. "So you don't 
trust us," he said, with a humorless smile.  "I thought that was it. Why didn't you tell 
us that from the start, instead of wasting our time?"
"It's not that," said Vorden. "I'm just wondering how you two can pull this off. 
Won't the other Squires notice you're missing?"
 Jerret smiled. "Probably. But what's the big deal? We'll just get in trouble, and 
have to do cleaning chores and the like for a while. But I think it's worth it. You three 
aren't the only ones sneaking around--Squires do it a lot. I think the Knights are really 
distracted right now and don't notice what's going on right under their noses. Cartlan's 
supposed to do a count on us each evening, but he usually doesn't bother."
"What if they search for you?" said Vorden.
"They won't," said Jerret. "I can guarantee it. They're not going to waste time 
looking for us." He laughed. "You really have been living in a cave! Do you think 
they'll awaken the High Council and send a legion of Knights to find us? If they even 
find out we're gone, they'll just wait until we come back to punish us."
Vorden's face burned red with embarrassment. "I was just trying to cover 
everything, Jerret. It doesn't hurt to be cautious."
"Sure," said Jerret. "So are we in, or not?"
"One more question," said Vorden. "The West Tower has door guards. How'd 
you get past them?"
Jerret chuckled. "We never went back after training. We've been hiding out in the 
woods all evening, freezing our skin off."
Vorden sighed. "This doesn't look good, Jerret."
"We took a risk," said Jerret, "and we're probably going to be in trouble. But 
that's our problem, not yours. So at least make it worth our while."
"Yeah," said Clayith. "Make it worth our while, Vorden."
Vorden fell silent for a time. Then he said, "Alright, we'll do it--but only if 
Lannon and Timlin agree. I'm not their boss or anything."
"I want to go," said Timlin. "I don't care what happened last time. This time it's 
going to be better. We're going to see the Divine Essence!"
"Let's just get going," said Lannon. He pulled his weapons and armor from 
beneath his bed and started putting them on.
"I guess it's decided then," said Vorden, nodding with approval at Lannon. 
"Looks like you're leading this adventure."
Lannon shrugged. "I don't care who leads. I just have to see the Divine Essence, 
and I'm not turning back until I do."
Clayith was staring intently at Lannon. He smiled, and Lannon thought Clayith 
looked like a bird of prey, with his hooknose and pointy chin. Clayith was the largest 
and strongest of all the Squires. But accompanying that physical strength was a 
gentleness that ran as deep as any Lannon had ever seen. Clayith saved drowning 
moths from water pools, and he defended any small creatures (even bugs) the other 
Squires sought to maim or squash. He always spoke in a soft voice, and never seemed 
to think very highly of himself but always gave praise to others.
Lannon had often wondered how, when the time came, Clayith would be able to 
kill. For wasn't that what Knights always did--kill Goblins? What were the Knights 
thinking when they chose Clayith Ironback, who would not hurt a bee that stung him? 
Had they somehow missed seeing that huge part of his personality, or had Clayith 
disguised it from them?
"Just tell me what to do, Lannon," said Clayith.
Lannon laughed, and marveled at his own progress. Less than a year before he 
had been an isolated lad with no friends. Now he had someone looking up to him, 
thinking of him as a leader.
"That's okay, Clayith," he said. "I'm not actually in charge here."
"A skull-and-bones formation, then," Clayith said, chuckling.
"Huh?" said Lannon. 
Clayith frowned. "Its...leaderless. That's what I meant. A dead unit, so to speak." 
Clayith shook his head, as if to clear it. "I don't care!" he muttered, half under his 
breath, and then turned away.
"Are you okay?" said Lannon.
Clayith turned back, smiling in his kindly way. "I'm sorry, Lannon. Sometimes 
my thoughts get mixed up. Its...the dark."
"The dark?" said Lannon.
Clayith cleared his throat. "I mean--that's what I call it when I blank out."
"Clayith's crazy," said Jerret, with a laugh. "He talks to himself sometimes, like 
an old man. Don't worry about it, Lannon. He's totally harmless."
Lannon nodded, suddenly feeling uncomfortable. "It's alright. I don't mind if you 
do that, Clayith." 
Clayith's mouth formed the words dead unit one more time, and then he clamped 
his lips together for a moment, before adding, "I'm watching your back, Lannon. Let's 
go!"
"What's our plan?" said Jerret.
Vorden thought for a moment. Then he looked to Lannon and said, "It's your call 
this time. What should we do?"
Lannon hesitated, thinking carefully. He tried hard to come up with something 
brilliant, while the others fidgeted impatiently, but at last he gave up and settled for 
something simple. "We should split up, at first," he said. "Jerret and Clayith can go on 
to the Temple and wait for us. Then, after a bit, we'll follow them. Once we're all at 
the Temple, Timlin can sneak in and check the place over. If it's clear, we'll all go in 
and...I guess just go on from there together."
"Why split up at first?" said Jerret, with a look of distrust.
"We won't get in as much trouble if we're caught," said Lannon. "It would look 
very suspicious if Blue and Red Squires were all sneaking around in one group. And 
our best chance to be seen is when we're journeying to the Temple."
Jerret nodded. "I guess that's true."
"Good plan," Vorden said. "But what about Aldreya?"
"She's in the Library," said Jerret. "We saw her on the way up. Should we have 
her go with us, or should we just forget about her?"
"She can go with us," said Vorden.
"She's pretty," said Jerret, smiling. "She can go with me and Clayith."
"She's from the East Tower," said Vorden, giving him a hard stare. "If you two 
got caught with her, the Knights would know something's up."
"Is that your real reason?" said Jerret. "Or are you afraid I'll ruin your chance to 
get close to her?"
Vorden's face was stony. "What are you talking about, Jerret? Have you ever 
heard of the Sacred Laws?"
"Sure," said Jerret. "But they don't mean much, apparently. We're going to be 
breaking them anyways."
"Show some manners," Vorden said coldly, straightening his clothes. "I have no 
interest in Aldreya other than...for the sake of this mission, I guess."
"You're a tough one to figure out, Vorden," said Jerret, "Sometimes you seem cut 
from rough cloth, and other times you seem like some well-to-do snob with your neat 
hair and talk of manners. I can’t understand you."
"Why?" said Vorden. "Because I believe in what Dremlock stands for, even if I'm 
forced to break the Sacred Laws when I know it's the right thing to do? I just don't 
like what you're hinting at."
"Fine," said Jerret, with a shrug. "I guess I won't mention it again." Then he 
mumbled, "I must have touched a sore spot or something."
Vorden glared, his hands knotted into fists.
"Anyways," said Lannon, in an effort to change the subject before the situation 
turned ugly, "I just hope the hidden passage to the Divine Essence isn't guarded by 
those Dark Knights like that Garndon fellow."
"Dark Knights?" said Jerret, with wide eyes.
Clayith stepped forward, staring at Lannon with an odd, troubled expression--as 
if Lannon had said something confusing or appalling.
"Don't say such things!" Clayith hissed. 
"Never mind," said Lannon, feeling his body recoil. Something about Clayith's 
expression, or way of standing, made Lannon feel almost physically ill. Did Clayith 
hold some hidden, important knowledge? 
"I guess I wasn't supposed to mention that," Lannon added. "So forget I said 
anything about Dark--"
"Quiet!" Clayith put his finger to his lips. 
"You're better off not knowing," said Timlin to Jerret, with a giggle. "That's our 
secret. Right, Lannon? Right, Vorden?"
"Not anymore," said Vorden, sighing.
After Jerret and Clayith left, the Blue Squires sat around for a while talking 
things over. The wind howled fiercely outside the tower, and now and then puffs of 
glittering snow would blow in from beneath the window shutters. They agreed that the 
Red Squires seemed trustworthy--though all three boys noted that Clayith seemed to 
be acting a bit strangely. But Clayith always had been somewhat quiet, and they 
reasoned that this was probably just a side to him they had never seen before. He was, 
after all, the kindest Squire any of them knew.
At last they crept from their chamber and headed downstairs. They went down 
two floors and then encountered a Red Squire--his sash well decorated with gold 
ribbons--standing outside his quarters in the hallway. He was an Olrog, about eighteen 
years old, and already his beard was as wide as his chest. They had seen this Squire 
before many times, but didn't know his name. (They barely knew any of the older 
Squires in the East Tower, though they had lived so near to them for almost a year.) 
He regarded them with suspicion in his grey eyes.
"What are you boys up to?" he said. "Shouldn't you be in bed? If Taris catches 
you wandering about it will spell bad business for you."
"We heard a noise outside the tower," Vorden said quickly. "It sounded like a 
crash or something."
"You sure it wasn't ice breaking off from the ledges?" said the Grey Dwarf. "I 
hear that a lot. Sometimes it wakes me up in the night."
"Could have been," said Vorden, "now that you mention it. Why didn't we think 
of that? Well, I guess we'll get back to sleep."
"Alright," the Olrog said. "Just watch yourselves. I don't know what you're up to, 
but Taris knows everything that goes on in this tower. Nothing escapes his eye. He 
has spies that lurk in the shadows. You can't see them, but they can see you. They're 
always watching. He won't always act right away, either, if he catches you breaking 
the rules. Sometimes he’ll wait for a while and see what you're up to. He knows 
you're down here, Squires. Make no mistake about that!"
"Then I guess we better hurry back to bed," said Vorden. With that, he started 
back towards the stairs. The others followed.
Glancing back, they saw the Olrog enter his quarters and close the door. Vorden 
stopped them with a motion of his hand.
"It's okay," he said. "He's gone to bed."
"I wonder what he was up to," said Lannon. 
"I'm also wondering that," said Vorden. "He questioned us, but maybe we should 
have questioned him. Of course, he was well decorated--almost a Knight by the looks 
of him. I guess we handled it well."
"His hands were dirty," said Timlin.
The other two stared at him for a moment.
"What do you mean?" said Vorden.
"Black dirt," said Timlin. "Like he'd been digging. It was under his nails. And his 
weapon was missing. He was wearing his sheath, but no sword. Oh, and one of his 
boots didn't match the other one--it was old and cracked and didn't have any laces. 
And the name on his sash was Golath Stonesplitter."
"You noticed all that?" said Vorden.
Timlin smiled, nodding. "I just looked him over the way we were trained to. 
Remember how Master Garrin said never to ignore anyone's appearance, to always 
study them carefully?"
Vorden nodded. "You make a good Blue, Timlin. Well, let's get moving. That 
Squire was obviously up to no good. He won't tell on us. I think he was just hoping 
we wouldn't tell on him."
"Right," said Lannon. "But do you think it's true what he said about Taris 
knowing all that goes on here?"
"If it was," said Vorden, "do you think that Golath fellow would have been out 
sneaking around? I don't think so. He just told us that to scare us, so we'd forget to 
question what he was doing running around with dirty hands and a missing boot. I 
think that if Taris knew what we were doing, he'd stop us."
As Vorden spoke those words, deep feelings of guilt swelled within Lannon. He 
remembered Taris' kindness during their journey to Dremlock. He thought of his 
father. What would the old man think of this? This was not Knightly behavior. But 
then he remembered his dream and his fears returned, along with his overwhelming 
need to visit the Divine Essence. Shutting his guilt away, he started back down the 
hallway with the others.
They made it to the library without encountering anyone else. Yet Aldreya was 
nowhere to be seen.
"Maybe she went with the other two," whispered Vorden, and the look in his dark 
eyes said he wasn't happy about that.
"I guess we should just keep going," said Lannon. "We can't afford to go looking 
about the tower for her. It's too risky."
They continued down to the first floor. Lannon (again having to swallow his 
guilt) swiped a Birlote torch from the wall, which--because it generated only light and 
no heat--he hid under his cloak. As they started towards the door, a form materialized 
out of the shadows.
The Squires' hearts lurched, and Timlin nearly cried out, clamping his hand over 
his mouth at the last instant.
"Leaving without me?" said Aldreya, her green eyes twinkling.
"We wouldn't dream of it," said Vorden, smiling.
When they stepped outside, the snows were blowing fiercely. The night sky was 
black with storm clouds, and the wind howled down the mountainside, chilling the 
Squires to the bone. The snow was drifting up around the tower.
"Great!" said Lannon, practically yelling to be heard over the wind. "I can't see a 
thing in this storm. I'm going to have to use the torch. I just hope no one's out and 
about tonight."
"Not likely," said Vorden. "Who'd be out in this? Except us and those other two 
fools, that is."
Vorden's words did not inspire confidence in Lannon.
The torch provided enough glow to see a few feet around them, but it was hardly 
adequate. As they headed towards the forest, they struggled to stay on the path, which 
was swiftly disappearing beneath the snows.
"What about Jerret and Clayith?" said Vorden. "You think they could find their 
way to the Temple in this blizzard? Did they even have a torch?"
"Who knows?" said Lannon. "If they're not at the Temple, I guess we go on 
without them. We can't wait all night."
Aldreya pressed her hand against her forehead, struggling to keep her silver curls 
from getting in her eyes. "I don't know about this," she said. "Maybe we should try 
this some other time." 
No one replied, and as they entered the forest, the wind continued to whip snow 
into their faces, with the Knightwood trees offering only a little protection against its 
wrath. The treetops swayed back and forth, creaking giants. They paused behind one 
of the cabin-sized tree trunks to get out of the wind and driving snow for a moment 
and catch their breath, brushing melting flakes from their faces.
"I've never seen it this bad!" Vorden said.
The others could only shake their heads, and they started moving again. At some 
point, they strayed from the trail and didn't realize it, as the snow had become too 
thick. Suddenly they were wandering randomly through the Knightwood pines, going 
in circles for all they knew, until at last they came up against an iron fence.
"What is this?" said Lannon. "Where in the world are we?"
Vorden shook his head disgustedly. "This could be the Cemetery fence. If it is, 
we have to find the main trail, which is somewhere by this fence, and follow it 
straight to the Temple."
"It's no good," said Lannon. "We can't see anything, Vorden. We can't stick to 
any trail. We need to try to get back to the tower, before they find out we're missing. 
What do you think, Timlin?"
Timlin wiped snow from his eyes. "I can't see where to go. I'm sorry." The lad 
hung his head, as if he expected the others to be upset with him.
"I can't do anything, either," said Aldreya. She took out her stone dagger and 
made it burn with green fire, but its light was too small to make any difference in the 
raging snowstorm. She put it away again. "See, it's no use."
Lannon struggled hard to think. All he could see was the dark and the swirling 
snow. Yet he could feel the Divine Essence calling to him. 
"I can use the Eye," he said, suddenly inspired. His words were smashed apart by 
the howling wind. 
"What did you say?" said Vorden.
"The Eye!" Lannon yelled. "Help me unlock it."
Aldreya leaned close to him. "What is the Eye, Lannon? I still have no idea what 
you're talking about! Taris has never taught me any sorcery like that, and when I 
asked him about it, he smiled and said I shouldn't concern myself with it. So I really 
don't know..." Her words slipped away in the storm.
The two Squires flanked Lannon, and spoke their opposing words directly into 
his ears while tapping his shoulders. It took many tries this time, for the storm was 
distracting to Lannon. But at last, when he began to doubt it was going to work, his 
mind suddenly split, and the power surged forth.
The Eye of Divinity reached into the storm, and Lannon could feel a strange and 
hidden strength there. He probed deeper, and the Eye showed him glimpses of things 
he would have never pondered on his own. He saw that the storm struck fear in the 
hearts of the living, causing people to huddle away beneath blankets and sit next to 
comforting flames. But it also removed the pettiness from the world and made all 
things equal. Beneath the storm's fury, social status became insignificant, and people 
strove simply to weather it out--until the sun's warmth came again, exposing flaws 
and dividing humankind. Inside the storm was a hidden power, a freedom from the 
chains of life that could allow one to open doorways ordinarily never glimpsed.
Lannon turned the Eye away from that vision, for he did not understand its true 
meaning and it did nothing to help his current situation. He directed the Eye on 
finding a path, and it passed beyond the iron fence and into Dremlock Cemetery, 
touching lightly upon the tombs of the dead. Lannon kept the Eye moving, for he did 
not like the bits and pieces of mortality he was shown there. The tombs were built not 
out of respect for the dead--but out of fear. Fear of death ruled this place. Yet 
something frightful lurked amid the tombs as well, something that had succumbed to 
its fear and had crafted its own reality--its own prison. It watched Lannon with a deep 
hunger, desiring his existence while disbelieving its own. Piece by piece the centuries 
had worn its prison away, until the illusion itself had become thin and lacking in 
substance. Yet still it stubbornly remained.
"Go away," Lannon whispered, as he directed the Eye past that wretched being. 
"You must know by now there's nothing for you here!" He shuddered, shocked by his 
own unexpected words and overflowing with dark anxieties.
For an instant, the Eye touched on something even more horrible--a smug, vain 
thing that believed itself superior to all others. This monstrosity could reach forth and 
crush Lannon into pudding--a massively powerful hand that was hunched beneath the 
soil, bearing a tension like a coiled spring.
For a moment Lannon faltered at that last hideous image, and the Eye wandered 
this way and that, displaying confused sights. Then he managed to steady himself and 
bring it under control. He knew one thing for sure, now. The Cemetery was a place he 
would never go--not in daylight or darkness. 
He located the path beyond the Cemetery. He motioned to the others and they 
followed, keeping close to him, as he wandered the fence line. When they reached the 
trail, he sent the Eye out farther, seeking to know what had become of Jerret and 
Clayith. But the Eye could reveal nothing about their whereabouts. And so, from that 
point on, he kept it focused on the trail. (He carefully avoided turning it on the others, 
not wanting to see their deeper truths after what he'd been shown the last time.)
As they left the Cemetery behind, the Eye suddenly lurched off to one side on its 
own, revealing a figure wandering through the woods. It was Jerret.
The Eye probed the Red Squire, showing an honorable, courageous heart that 
could be easily corrupted. Jerret Dragonsbane would follow the lead of whoever got 
to him first, whoever pleased him the most. He walked the knife edge between light 
and dark. But right now he was trustworthy, and that was all that mattered.
"Jerret!" Lannon called out over the wind.
"Lannon?" came the reply. A moment later Jerret lurched out of the drifting snow 
and bumped into them. He looked half frozen.
"Am I glad to see you people!" Jerret said. "I got separated from Clayith, and I 
don't know where he went. I've just been feeling my way around, trying to get back to 
the West Tower. It was bad enough earlier, when there was still a little daylight. But 
now that it's dark out, you can't see anything at all!"
"We've noticed," said Vorden. "Lannon's leading the way. He knows how to get 
there. Just stay close to us and follow along."
"We're still doing this?" said Jerret. "Well, okay. But I don't see how we're going 
to find our way there. This storm is crazy."
Huddling around Lannon, they trudged straight to the Temple. When they finally 
stood before it, unable to see it save for the front entrance, which was barely visible in 
the torchlight, the Eye of Divinity probed the structure. This Temple was erected in 
honor of the Divine Essence, and it had been built with tremendous care. Each stone 
had been placed flawlessly and purposefully. But it was an uncertain structure 
nonetheless--because the god of Dremlock was an uncertain deity. This god did not 
exist in the heavens in a shimmering palace--instead it lay underground in a cavern--
and the Temple reflected that. It was a sacred place, yet something was wrong here. It 
had been built for a god that had known great suffering.
Lannon shook the vision away, feeling strangely empty. The Eye seemed to be 
leaping about too quickly, revealing the truths behind truths, teaching him things he 
wasn't ready for. He didn't want to know such things, for he felt unworthy. Why 
should he, of all people, be shown such knowledge? And was it even trustworthy? 
Perhaps the Eye was showing only possibilities, speculation. Or perhaps that's just 
what he hoped. He realized he would have to learn to control the Eye better, or it 
might eventually put a strain on his sanity. 
Lannon focused on the Temple door. It bore a stout lock, but nothing Timlin 
couldn't handle. Lannon nodded to the little fellow, then stepped aside and let him go 
to work. It took Timlin several moments, but at last he got it unlocked.
"I don't want to go in by myself," said Timlin. "I know that was our plan--to have 
me check the place over--but I guess I'm still thinking about what happened before. 
Let's all go in there together."
"You don't have to," Aldreya said gently. "I'll go with you." She glared at the 
others. "Even if they won't."
"Don't worry about it, Timlin," said Lannon, feeling guilty beneath Aldreya's 
stare. "I wouldn't want to go in alone, either, even though this is a good place--not like 
the mines. We'll all go in."
Lannon was growing weary of receiving so much knowledge so quickly, and as 
he stepped inside, he drew the Eye partially within himself. There would be time for 
studying the true nature of things when he felt ready. The Eye was a powerful force, 
and already it had awakened deep fears within him. Perhaps the Divine Essence could 
help him understand it better.
They closed the door behind them, leaving it unlocked in case they needed a swift 
exit, and hurried down the short hallway, which still smelled of incense even though 
none was lit. The door at the end bore no lock. Lannon pulled it open and started 
through. Glancing back, he saw that Jerret hadn't moved.
"I don't think I can do this," Jerret said, looking grim. "It feels wrong. This is the 
Temple of the Divine Essence. What right have I to sneak in here?"
Lannon searched his own feelings. Surprisingly, he felt no guilt now that he had 
reached the Temple. He could feel the Divine Essence somewhere below. It wanted 
him to come here, to break the Laws.
"It's okay," said Lannon. "You can wait here if you want to."
"What?" said Vorden, with a disgusted look. "Come on, Jerret. Don't be a fool. 
You risked a lot to come here, and now you're going to turn away at the last moment? 
If you ask me, that's just plain stupid."
Jerret swallowed. "I just... Alright, Vorden, let's keep moving." Still looking 
grim, and a bit sheepish as he glanced at Aldreya, the Red Squire started forward.
They entered the sanctuary and hurried up the steps to the altar. The torchlight 
fell on it, revealing the runes of the Sacred Text.
"I guess we should push on it or something," said Lannon.
Vorden snickered. "Use the Eye, Lannon."
"Oh, that's right," said Lannon, his face reddening. He let the Eye extend out and 
probe the altar. At first a jumble of thoughts ran through his mind, revealing tiny 
glimpses of religion and worship throughout the ages, but Lannon ignored that 
fragmented knowledge and focused on finding the hidden entrance. He saw that the 
top of the altar simply lifted off, with a stairway leading down underneath. Lannon 
explained it to the others.
"We can't lift that," said Timlin. "It's solid stone. We need Clayith."
"We can do it," said Vorden. "Right, Jerret?"
"Sure," Jerret said reluctantly. 
The four Squires grabbed the edges of the stone slab and strained to lift it. Putting 
forth a tremendous struggle, they still couldn't manage it. Months of rigorous strength 
training still had not given them enough power to move the great slab.
"Forgetting someone?" said Aldreya.
"It won't make any difference," said Vorden. "It's too heavy."
She placed her hands on the slab and concentrated. Her lips muttered silent 
words. The stone slab shuddered and shifted, suddenly filled with energy. "Lift it," 
she said, her voice strained. 
The Squires pulled with all their might, but it wasn't necessary. The slab had 
grown much lighter, and they lifted it off the altar with ease and sat it aside.
Aldreya wiped sweat from her forehead and smiled. "Well, that drained me quite 
a bit. But I'll be okay. Let's get going, then."
A stone stairway descended from the very top of the altar down into the darkness. 
A dank, musty smell arose from below--a cold and wet smell.
Lannon suddenly felt afraid. Was he expected to go first? He drew the Eye back 
into him a ways, dreading what it might show him.
Vorden smiled at Lannon and leapt up onto the stairs. He started down, as if he 
needed no torchlight to find his way.
Lannon and the others quickly followed.
At the bottom of the stairs were two doors of Glaetherin--one on the right and one 
on the left, with a wheel lock at the center of each. Lannon let the Eye probe the door 
on the right, peering beyond it into the passage. He glimpsed a powerful force up 
ahead, though from this distance he couldn't make out anything about it except that it 
was not an evil power. Beyond the left door, he sensed something dark and powerful--
and quite evil--that he didn't dwell on for more than an instant.
"We should go right," he said, his body trembling.
Vorden nodded. "Whatever you say, Lannon. Lead the way."
Lannon focused the Eye on the wheel lock, and it took him only a moment to 
solve it. Then the door stood open.
Jerret gasped in amazement. "Lannon, how did you do that? Those things are 
supposed to be impossible to solve."
"He does that all the time," said Aldreya, shaking her head. "Don't bother asking, 
because apparently he likes to keep it to himself."
Lannon felt a surge of pride, but could think of nothing to say for a moment. At 
last he shrugged and said, "I guess I just have the gift."
Lannon suddenly began to feel ill and weary. His stomach felt heavy. It seemed 
the Eye had been out too long and had revealed too much. He needed a break from it. 
Having accomplished this major task in solving the wheel lock, he drew the Eye all 
the way into himself, and the halves of his mind merged into one.
As the Squires started through the doorway, a noise behind them made them 
jump. Someone was coming down the steps--heavy footsteps and panting. They froze 
in horror, not even able to ready their weapons, while the figure descended.
"Hey!" a familiar voice called out. "Don't forget about me."
A tall, burly form stepped into the torchlight. It was Clayith Ironback.
The others breathed sighs of relief.
"You scared the wits out of us!" whispered Jerret. "But I'm glad to see you. How 
did you find this place in the storm?"
Clayith shrugged. "I just got lucky, I suppose." His skin was pale, his hair and 
eyebrows frosted with snow and ice. He licked his lips. "It wasn't so bad, you know. 
Just follow the east wind, like winter's breath..."
"What?" said Jerret. "Are you alright? You look like a snowman."
Clayith laughed. "No, I'm just fine. Hey, that purple thing's up ahead, you know. 
We should go deal with it." He cleared his throat, looking confused.
"Purple thing?" said Lannon. "Oh, you mean the Divine Essence. Right, let's get 
going. I think we're past the hard part now."
They passed through the doorway and found themselves moving down a short 
hallway. The hallway ended at a trapdoor, which bore a huge iron padlock. 
"It's all yours, Timlin," said Lannon.
Timlin knelt down, and a moment later the lock was open. "I'm getting faster," he 
said, grinning, while the others looked on in admiration.
Vorden lifted the trap door, revealing an iron ladder that stretched down beyond 
the torchlight. The sound of running water came from below.
The ladder looked sturdy, and they immediately started down, with Vorden in the 
lead. They descended about thirty feet and ended up in a round stone chamber. Four 
tunnels led away from the chamber, but three of them had been sealed permanently 
with solid barriers of Glaetherin that bore no locks. Flowing through the middle of the 
cavern was a little stream that came out of a hole in one wall and disappeared through 
a hole in the opposite wall. The chamber, and the stream, looked like natural 
formations.
"I guess we've got one choice," said Vorden.
His heart pounding with anxiety and growing excitement, Lannon hurried 
towards the open cavern. As they passed along it, they could see shards of multi-
colored crystal protruding from the rock.
"We're getting close!" Lannon breathed excitedly.
"Ugly things!" muttered Clayith. "Those crystals hurt my head."
The others heard him, but paid little heed. They were bent on seeing the Divine 
Essence and nothing could distract them. The cavern curved up ahead, and the 
crystals became the walls, replacing the stone. The Squires could feel optimism 
building in their minds. As the light of truth fell upon them, they felt like anything 
was possible, that all would work out for a greater purpose. Behind them, Clayith 
began to whimper.
As they rounded the curve, the light became radiant, and then before them, in the 
chamber of fantastically colored crystal, stood the three purple Flamestones that made 
up the Mind of the White Guardian. Tall, pointy gems rising from a flat base, they 
were narrow at the bottom and widened out at the top. They were spaced unevenly 
apart, forming a triangle. The gems were rugged, a bit misshapen--far from the 
perfection the Squires had been imagining. Yet the Divine Essence was revealed at 
last, and the Squires were swept away with emotions, bathed in a wondrous glow of 
truth. Vorden and Timlin stood transfixed, while Jerret dropped to his knees.
"The King of Dremlock!" Aldreya breathed. Then she knelt next to Jerret.
Instantly Lannon's mind split of its own accord, and the Eye of Divinity came 
forth--as if being pulled out of him. It surged straight into the Divine Essence. It 
showed him things about the Essence that astounded him. Despite everything the 
Knights of Dremlock seemed to believe, this was not some all-knowing god. This was 
a lonely child with an uncertain future, a child partially destroyed yet still clinging to 
life. It was a lone candle burning in the darkness, struggling to give hope, yet 
threatened from all sides by the swarming shadows.
Lannon was overcome with a desire to help this child, to make it whole again and 
allow it to grow. But that was beyond his power. The White Guardian was no more--
just shattered fragments that still pulsed with life.
Lannon was deeply saddened, and in his despair, the Eye of Divinity drew back 
inside him. Yet even as it retracted it revealed images, and he glimpsed a dark danger 
just behind him. Someone else in this chamber, like the Essence, was lonely and 
suffering--a puppet controlled by rage and hatred. In his mind he saw the poison blade 
slice the air towards his back, but he saw it too late to take action.
Lannon screamed as the cold steel pierced his shoulder. His body went numb and 
his legs gave out. He collapsed, but for a moment he remained coherent and was able 
to lift his head long enough to glimpse what was happening around him. He heard 
shouts, and he saw Vorden leap across the floor towards Clayith. Clayith was holding 
a black dagger, and his eyes gleamed with insanity. Vorden's axe bore down upon the 
burly Squire. Then Lannon's mind went black.
Chapter 12:  Squires on Trial
When Lannon awoke, he was lying on a bed in a huge rectangular room. The 
room was lined with beds, and had much greenery in it, with tall plants in the corners 
and flowered vines growing on the walls and twined around some of the bedposts. A 
stone fountain stood at the center of the chamber, with statues of tiny, mythical Fairy 
Goblins in dancing poses around the water flow. Some of the beds were occupied by 
wounded Knights, who were being tended to by White Knights. Lannon recognized 
none of the wounded by name, but he had seen a few of them before.
Standing over Lannon was Vesselin Hopebringer, the ancient Lord of the White 
Knights. Firelight gave a red tint to his flowing silver hair and beard as he leaned 
forward with his gnarled hand clutching one of the bedposts. Vesselin smiled. "It is 
good that you have awakened, Lannon. I was very concerned. Yet it appears that you 
shall fully recover."
Recent memories flooded Lannon's mind, and he groaned, wondering where he 
was and how much time had passed. His throat felt as dry as dust, the flesh feeling 
ready to crack apart. He couldn't feel any pain his shoulder where Clayith's blade had 
struck, but he couldn't bring himself to probe the injury to see if it was healed. He 
simply waited for Vesselin to explain things. 
"You went through a horrible ordeal, young one," said Vesselin. "I shall try to 
answer any questions you might have."
Lannon tried to speak, but nothing came out. He pointed to his throat. "I need 
some water," he managed to croak.
Vesselin called to one of the healers, who brought a mug of water to Lannon. The 
boy slurped it down, spilling much of it on his chest. When he could manage to talk, 
he blurted out, "Where are my friends?"
"They're all fine," said Vesselin. "Except for Clayith Ironback, who unfortunately 
is dead."
Lannon sighed and looked away. Clayith was dead, and Vorden had slain him. 
Lannon had seen it with his own eyes. 
"How long was I asleep?"
"Two nights. But we need not speak of these things right now, if you wish. You 
can get more rest before we talk."
"Tell me everything. I need to know what happened."
"Very well." Vesselin lowered his voice to just above a whisper. "Clayith 
Ironback was possessed by the Deep Shadow. He was being controlled by someone 
unknown to us. He attempted to murder you with a poison dagger. It was a deadly 
poison, needing only to prick your skin to bring instant death. In fact, the dagger 
wound was quite shallow, as just the tip managed to pierce your armor. But that's all 
that was needed. We believe Clayith learned how to concoct this poison after studying 
one of the books in the East Tower Library--a book which has since been removed. 
After Clayith attacked you, your friend Vorden Flameblade slew Clayith, which is 
understandable but very unfortunate, because we might have been able to free his 
mind and learn who his master was. Yet it is too late to dwell on such things. We must 
now look to the future."
"How did I survive?" Lannon asked.
"We believe the Divine Essence saved you," said Vesselin. "It cast a healing light 
upon you that neutralized the poison. Yet you remained unconscious, leading us to 
fear that too much damage had been done for even the Divine Essence to heal."
"It saved me?" Lannon whispered in awe. 
"Yes, it did," said Vesselin. "You know there is something different about you. 
You know the Knights have special plans for you, that the fate Dremlock may depend 
upon the Eye of Divinity. The fact that the Divine Essence brought you back from 
certain death confirms that your gift is of great importance, I believe."
"What happened after that?" said Lannon.
"Two of your friends waited in the Temple with you, while Vorden Flameblade 
and Jerret Dragonsbane went out seeking help. The boys got lost and nearly froze to 
death in the woods. Finally they made it to the North Tower and reported what had 
happened. We expected to find you dead."
Lannon didn't know what to say, and so he stayed silent.
"You Squires brought much trouble upon yourselves," said Vesselin. "The High 
Council is up in arms. A trial has been set for tomorrow evening, to determine the fate 
of you and your friends."
Lannon grimaced. "You mean...we could be banished?"
Vesselin nodded sadly. "Unfortunately, yes. This is a very serious matter. Not 
even the East and West Tower Masters are permitted to see the Divine Essence. Only 
a Lord Knight is allowed to do so. The Scriptures clearly state that."
Lannon closed his eyes, his thoughts twisting like a whirlpool. How had this all 
happened? Was it his fault? He thought of Clayith, and to his horror, he realized the 
lad might have been specifically targeting him.
"Why did he try to kill me?" Lannon asked.
Vesselin's face was grim. "That's a good question, Lannon. Perhaps he was just 
striking out at someone randomly."
Lannon searched Vesselin's face. "But you don't believe that, do you?"
"No, I do not."
Lannon glanced about nervously. "Then am I in any danger?"
"You will be watched closely from this point on. Always someone will look after 
you, though you may be unaware of their presence. Yet I would advise using all the 
knowledge you have learned--your skills as a Blue Squire and the Eye of Divinity. 
Trust no one fully--not even those who seemingly have earned your trust--and keep 
your eyes open. Be alert for signs, Lannon. That's the only advice I can give."
His heart racing, Lannon gave a quick nod. 
"We made a grave mistake," said Vesselin. "We should have watched you from 
the start. We felt secure in the knowledge that no Squire can access the truly 
forbidden areas. We didn't count on you using the Eye of Divinity to solve the wheel 
locks. Yet there are other reasons you should have been looked after more closely, 
and I think what happened last night has opened our eyes to that. But as far as the trial 
goes, the High Council is made up of several stubborn men, who may not take into 
account your importance to the kingdom when deciding your fate."
Vesselin sighed. "This all should have been handled very differently, right from 
the moment you first entered Dremlock. We brought this trouble upon ourselves."
Lannon said nothing, knowing Vesselin was wrong. It was Lannon's fault this had 
occurred, for without use of the Eye, the journey below the Temple would never have 
taken place--and Clayith might still be alive.
"I must leave you now," said Vesselin. "I'll be back later on to check on your 
progress. Until then, try to get some rest."
Vesselin left the Hall. Lannon closed his eyes, knowing he could not simply rest 
as Vesselin had suggested. Far too much was on his mind. But after a while, he did 
begin to doze a bit, and he knew he was still suffering the after effects of the poison, 
which felt like hands trying to drag him back down into the blackness.
Lannon heard soft footsteps approaching and snapped awake. Garrin 
Daggerblood stood before him, a disappointed look on his face.
"I'm sorry for the trouble I've caused, Master Garrin," Lannon said. "It won't ever 
happen again." His words sounded weak and pitiful.
"You should have come to me," said Garrin. "You should have told me you had 
unlocked the Eye of Divinity. I would have helped you. Now I fear you are beyond 
my help. I am not part of the High Council, and my words shall go unheeded. I feel 
betrayed by you, Lannon Sunshield. I expected better of you." With that, the Blue 
Knight turned and walked away.
"Wait!" Lannon called out, but Garrin left the hall without looking back.
Lannon closed his eyes, almost wishing he had died down there instead of 
Clayith. Clayith's mind had been possessed by darkness. What was Lannon's excuse? 
He had knowingly violated the Sacred Laws, and his dreams of being a great Knight 
were crumbling apart. He sighed, longing for home, for as unhappy his old life had 
been, it seemed preferable to this in some ways.
From that point on, Lannon lay awake all day long and late into the night, deeply 
troubled, wishing he had someone to talk to about his anxieties. He avoided thinking 
of his father, for such thoughts were like daggers of pain in his heart.  If Lannon were 
cast out of Dremlock, what would Doanan think of him? How could he ever go home 
and face his father? Also, he felt partially responsible for Clayith's death. 
Lannon turned his thoughts towards the Divine Essence, but no help existed 
there. The Essence, in spite of its great power, was a scared and lonely child, not a 
god that could answer prayers and change the future. A deep emptiness swelled within 
Lannon--the realization that things might indeed be hopeless. Dremlock was in grave 
danger, and it appeared no one could stop it. If the rumors were true, not many 
Knights were left to defend the kingdom, and Goblins were on the move. He had 
believed the Divine Essence would give him answers, but instead it had left him 
feeling that all hope was lost.
***
The next day, Lannon remained in the Hall of Healing, bored and anxious, 
hoping someone of importance would come along to speak to him. But no one did--
not even Vesselin Hopebringer. Yet he noted that White Knights were always 
watching him from close by, and he was not allowed to leave the Hall, or even his 
bed, most of the time. The day crept by very slowly towards the trial that would 
decide his fate.
Trenton Shadowbane, the Investigator, at last came to escort him to the trial. He 
entered the Hall and approached Lannon with a grim look on his face, while taking 
quick puffs of a small wooden pipe. "The trial is set to begin," he said, "so hurry up 
now. We can't keep the Council waiting. Your things are under the bed."
Lannon grabbed his pack and donned his winter cloak, but noticed that his 
weapons and armor were missing. He never went anywhere without his armor and 
sword these days, and he felt naked without them. He glanced questioningly at 
Trenton.
"Where is my sword and armor?"
"You are a possible threat to this kingdom," Trenton said, frowning. "Your 
weapons will be returned to you if you are found innocent." He smiled--a predatory 
grin that showed perfect teeth. "But if found guilty, you won't be needing them 
anyway, of course."
Lannon nodded, gazing at the floor. "Where are my friends?"
"I escorted them to the North Tower earlier," said Trenton. "They are in 
Dremlock Hall, where all trials are conducted. Now let us be off."
Lannon followed Trenton from the Hall of Healing. It was another cold day, with 
a grey sky from which sprinkled snow. The path to the North Tower had been 
shoveled out after the blizzard, leaving snow banks taller than Lannon on either side. 
The Investigator made great strides as his boots crunched along the path, puffs of 
smoke from his lips blowing a sweet tobacco scent back towards Lannon, who had to 
struggle to keep pace with him. The lad was shaking from the cold and his anxieties 
as he stumbled along, and he was weary from lack of sleep. His stomach felt like he'd 
swallowed a lump of lead. Lannon could not see the Temple, which lay upon the 
opposite side of the North Tower, and he was glad of that. He had no desire to look 
upon it this day.
"You and your friends have caused quite a turmoil," said Trenton. "Some Council 
members are calling for your heads...not literally, of course. Well, actually, maybe 
some are being literal, but that's not my point. You need to be punished, and punished 
severely. Dremlock doesn't need this foolishness right now!"
Lannon kept silent, knowing if he said the wrong thing, it could make his position 
worse--if that were possible.
But Trenton would not let it be. He stopped and turned towards Lannon. "Don't 
think you're going to get away with this, boy. Tell me, what motivates you, Lannon 
Sunshield? Do you like things as they are?" His grey eyes shone with accusation as he 
glared at Lannon. He reminded Lannon very much of a wolf studying its prey, and out 
of sheer nervousness, Lannon was forced to speak.
"I regret what I did," he said.
The grey eyes narrowed. "How pathetic, child. You lack conviction in your 
words.  There can only be one fate for the likes of you."
Lannon sighed, already knowing what Trenton's vote would be. If there were 
more people like this Investigator on the High Council, his career at Dremlock was 
definitely finished.
"I get your point," Lannon said, losing his temper. "You don't like me. But there 
is no use in beating me over the head with it!"
Trenton raised his eyebrows. "It has nothing to do with my personal feelings 
toward you. The Sacred Laws must always be obeyed!"
Trenton started walking again at an even faster pace. Lannon had to practically 
run to keep up. The North Tower was nearly the width of the East and West towers 
combined, and at least thirty feet taller than either, with six balconies encircling it. 
The black and silver Crest of Dremlock was emblazoned upon a giant flag that stood 
atop the peak. Six Red Knights, heavily armed, stood guard atop stone steps that led 
up to a towering iron door. They didn't move a muscle as the two approached, and 
their bearded faces were stern. They were part of the elite force of Knights that would 
defend the North Tower to their last breaths.
As the two ascended the steps, the guards pulled the door open. They nodded to 
Trenton, but the Investigator ignored them and strode on through. Lannon glanced at 
them, and saw pity in their eyes directed his way. He wished he hadn't looked at them. 
The door was pushed shut behind them.
They stood in Dremlock Hall. It resembled the Great Hall in the West Tower, 
except everything within was larger and grander. The floor was covered in a rich 
silver carpet, upon which sat five long tables bearing fancy adornments, such as candy 
dishes, wine jugs, and jars of tobacco. Fifteen foot tall paintings of Knights lined the 
walls, with one twenty foot masterpiece depicting Kuran Darkender that hung above a 
huge iron fireplace. On either side of the fireplace stood a door, one labeled Green 
Hall and another labeled Main Hall. Ten large Knights--bearing full plate mail, 
crossbows, battle axes, and shields--lined the chamber, with five on either side. A 
Grey Knight stood near the fireplace, holding a green crystal rod in her hands that she 
slowly turned this way and that while her gaze wandered the room.
The High Council was gathered at one of the tables, along with Lannon's friends. 
Timlin, Jerret, and Aldreya were pale and anxious-looking, but Vorden appeared 
relaxed, leaning back with his arms folded across his chest. Taris and Furlus flanked 
the four Squires, with a chair beside the Squires left open for Lannon.
Trenton pointed to the empty chair. "Go sit by your friends and keep still. Speak 
only if you are granted permission."
Lannon went and sat down. At first he avoided looking at anyone, but then his 
gaze began to wander about, searching the faces of the Council members for any sign 
of hope. But he could tell nothing from their expressions.
Clearing his throat, Cordus said, "We are here to discuss the fate of these five 
Squires. I must remind you all that this is a closed trial, and anything spoken here 
should not be discussed once this meeting has ended."
"What is there to discuss?" said a Green Knight named Kealin Lightsword. "The 
Squires have admitted their guilt, and now a vote must be taken." Kealin was a tall, 
broad-shouldered man with a thin beard and mustache. Deep lines cut through the 
flesh of his cheeks and forehead, and his mouth was always set in a cold, cynical line.
"Not all of them have admitted wrongdoing," said Taris. "Lannon Sunshield has 
admitted nothing, as far as I know. He may have been a prisoner, dragged along 
against his will." The sorcerer's hood was thrown back, revealing his silver hair, 
pointed ears, and bright green eyes. He seemed very human to Lannon all of a sudden, 
lacking the mysterious aura he usually possessed. 
"This is ridiculous," muttered Kealin. "Guilt has already been established beyond 
a reasonable doubt. This trial is about punishment alone. I suggest we get on with our 
vote, so we may then proceed with more important matters."
"Well said, Kealin," spoke another Green Knight. This one was an Olrog named 
Moten Goblinsbane, a short, bald, and heavyset Grey Dwarf with a peculiar feature--
his beard had been trimmed short, while his sideburns remained extremely bushy.
"These Squires have violated our Sacred Laws," said Kealin. "And there can only 
be one punishment for that--banishment from the kingdom."
"Let me remind you all," said Cordus, "of Lannon Sunshield's importance to this 
kingdom. He alone possesses the Eye of Divinity, which has the potential to solve the 
Goblin Puzzle that has caused us so much trouble."
Lannon's heart leapt with hope. If Cordus Landsaver was on his side, surely he 
would not be banished. Lannon couldn't believe the others would dare go against the 
Lord Knight. Cordus seemed too commanding and powerful to be challenged.
But Lannon was wrong, and if he held any illusions after several months of being 
at Dremlock about how the kingdom was run, they were shattered an instant later. 
Kealin slapped the tabletop with his hand. "Nonsense, I say! This is just another 
way of pushing the burden off our own shoulders. It's time we stop pointing fingers at 
fate, or the Deep Shadow, or riddles. We are the Knights of Dremlock, the ones who 
must defend this kingdom--not a mere boy who lacks honor. This Eye of Divinity--
this ancient magic that few know anything about--is not the answer. We must bear the 
responsibility for what has happened to Dremlock and our Knights."
"What do you know of responsibility, Kealin?" said Taris. "If Lannon is 
banished, I cannot train him, correct?"
Kealin nodded. "Yes, the Scriptures state that."
"Yet he must be trained to use the Eye," said Taris. "Now that he has unlocked it, 
he must learn to control it. Only I am knowledgeable enough in the ancient magical 
arts to administer that kind of training. If he is not shown how to properly use his gift, 
the Goblin Puzzle will remain unsolved, and Dremlock will fall."
"We cannot violate the Laws for any reason," said Kealin. "It is as simple as that. 
If we do, then Dremlock has already fallen and is not worthy of defending. And again, 
I say this Eye of Divinity is not the answer."
Furlus shook his head. His skin had reddened, his breath growing raspy. "I've 
heard enough of this, Kealin! The Divine Essence healed that boy, saving him from 
certain death. Doesn't that mean anything to you?"
"Yes, it does," said Kealin, calmly. "It means our god is merciful, even to the 
unjust. And that is all it means. This is not an excuse to violate the Sacred Laws, 
which must be adhered to at all costs. At all costs!"
Moten nodded, his grey eyes fixed on Furlus. "What kind of Olrog are you, 
Furlus Goblincrusher? You would go against everything that we stand for as Knights 
and side with criminals? What happened to your honor? Grey Dwarves don't act in 
such a manner as this. I am ashamed to belong to the same race as you."
Furlus shook with rage. "How dare you speak to me of honor, Moten. I know 
what you've been up to, having dealings with the dark--"
"Furlus!" Cordus growled. "Hold your tongue."
Reluctantly, Furlus fell silent, but did not take his eyes off Moten. Furlus' face 
was like stone, his hands clenched into meaty fists.
"The rest of you watch what you say as well," said Cordus. "We shall maintain 
order at this trial and not forget our purpose here."
Moten stared back at Furlus, a smug look on his face. A hint of a smile was at the 
corners of his mouth.
Lannon and the other Squires couldn't believe what they were seeing. Furlus had 
just all but accused Moten of having dealings with the Deep Shadow, and Moten's 
only response was to stare smugly back. Lannon wanted badly to say something, but 
Vorden beat him to it.
"Who should be on trial here?" said Vorden. "Us, or those--"
"Be quiet!" Cordus interrupted him. "Do not speak without permission. I better 
not have to tell you this again, Vorden Flameblade."
"The lad is arrogant to speak out thus," said Moten. "Dremlock doesn't need such 
brazenness, such blatant defiance of our Laws. I think we can see what kind of 
Squires we're dealing with here."
"I understand his desire to speak," said Taris. "Why should he not be allowed to 
state his case? The rule is not fair."
"Regardless," said Moten, "it is a rule and should be obeyed."
"This discussion is pointless," said Kealin. "The trial has just begun, yet already it 
has degenerated into a verbal brawl. And to what end? I say the final vote is all that 
matters. So let us waste no more time with this foolishness."
Cordus glanced around the table. "And the rest of you? How do you feel about 
this matter? Should the Squires--including Lannon--be banished?"
The Squires glanced at each other. Among them, only Vorden continued to show 
confidence, leading Lannon to wonder if he held some knowledge that might get them 
out of this mess. If anyone could think of a way to save their careers at Dremlock, 
Vorden was the one. 
"I do not think Lannon should be banished," said Vesselin Hopebringer, 
"regardless of what happens to the other Squires." He folded his wrinkled, trembling 
hands before him. "I've been Lord of the White Knights for over one hundred and 
twenty years, and I've always longed for peace. Yet I know that peace can never exist 
in Silverland until the Goblins are completely vanquished. The other kingdoms won't 
help us. We must defend Silverland on our own. My dream is to see peace come to 
our land before my passing, yet my time in this realm grows short. Lannon Sunshield, 
and his Eye of Divinity, could make that dream a reality."
"I think they should all be banished," said Carn Pureheart, Lord of the Blue 
Knights. "I believe the Divine Essence does not want us to break its Laws. I believe 
this is a test, and if we fail it and take the easy route, Dremlock will fall."
"Beautifully said!" exclaimed Kealin. "I fully agree with you."
"As do I," said Moten. "This is indeed a test of our Knightly virtues."
The remaining Council member, a Birlote woman named Krissana Windsword, 
spoke up. "I have to agree with those in favor of banishment. This does appear to be a 
divine test, which we cannot afford to fail."
"I think all but Lannon and Aldreya should be banished," said Taris. 
"I agree with Taris," said Furlus, "concerning Lannon."
"Then everyone has spoken," said Kealin. "It is time to vote."
"And none of you will change your minds?" said Cordus, his eyes searching 
theirs for any hint of doubt. "About Lannon, I mean."
They shook their heads.
"Our minds shall not be changed so easily!" said Kealin. "We are firm in our 
moral convictions, Lord Knight."
"Very well," said Cordus, sighing. 
Lannon's heart went into a flutter. Jerret and Timlin were staring at the tabletop, 
obviously unable to watch at this point. Aldreya's eyes were closed, her hands clasped 
before her as if in prayer. Vorden, however, still maintained his relaxed pose, only 
now there seemed something fake about it--as if it were all show and no substance. He 
seemed frozen in that position.
Cordus spoke sternly:  "Anyone in favor of banishing Vorden Flameblade forever 
from Dremlock Kingdom, raise your hand."
All of the Council members raised hands. Vorden's confident look disintegrated 
into one of shock, his mouth dropping open. "You can't do this!" he cried. "This 
kingdom needs us."
"Vorden Flameblade," Cordus continued coldly, "you are hereby cast out of 
Dremlock until the end of your days. And if you speak again, you shall spend some 
time in the dungeon."
The Lord Knight then went on, "Anyone in favor of banishing Timlin 
Woodmaster, raise your hand."
Again, all the Council members agreed that Timlin should be banished forever. 
The scrawny lad began to weep.
Cordus ignored him and continued. "Anyone in favor of banishing Jerret 
Dragonsbane, raise your hand."
Again, there was the same result. Jerret put his head in his hands, his eyes sullen. 
He mumbled something no one could quite understand.
Aldreya's turn was next. And when the vote called for her banishment, she leapt 
up. "You can't do this!" she cried, glowering at those who had spoken against her. "I 
was sent here from Borenthia. My father will very displeased with this decision. 
You're making a big mistake."
"We stand by our decision," said Kealin. "Whether or not we lose favor with the 
Birlotes is something we cannot be held responsible for."
"Nevertheless," said Taris. "She is right. As I've already officially stated, this 
could potentially ruin our ancient relationship with the Elder Family. Dremlock will 
suffer greatly because of this decision to banish the girl."
"She deserves no special treatment," said Carn. "She violated the Laws and must 
be punished like the others. The Elder Family, I hope, will understand why we had to 
take this course of action."
Her face red with fury, Aldreya slumped back in her chair. "You're all going to 
regret this!" she muttered one last time. 
"And now," said Cordus, "anyone in favor of banishing Lannon Sunshield--
anyone who would ignore the potential of the Eye of Divinity to save our kingdom--
think carefully and make your decision."
Kealin, Moten, Krissana, Carn, and Trenton all raised their hands. Cordus, Taris, 
Furlus, and Vesselin stood opposed, hands at their sides.
"The Council has decided then," said Cordus, grimly.
"And decided well!" said Kealin. "Truth and justice have triumphed this day." He 
turned and shook hands with Moten, and they clapped each other on the back. 
Krissana and Carn sat in thoughtful silence. Trenton Shadowbane looked thoughtful 
as well, his eyes distant.
"Now," said Kealin, "if these ex-Squires may be escorted from here, we can get 
on to other matters--such as the important affairs of this kingdom."
"Wait," said Cordus, raising a hand. "This is not over yet."
Kealin's eyes widened. "What is this outrage? The High Council has made its 
decision, Cordus, harsh as it may seem."
"Indeed it has," said Cordus. "But now I must make a harsh decision of my own. 
This is a time of war! Goblins have taken over the forestlands of Hethos. They are 
near the borders of Kalamede, and if not stopped, will soon overrun the city. And 
even now they are advancing on Dremlock Kingdom. During a time such as this, a 
Lord Knight may assume full command of the affairs of Dremlock. Well, I am 
officially declaring us at war! The Black Torches shall be raised in the towers, and the 
Three Chambers of Law shall be sealed. This decision gives me the right to overrule 
any decision made by the Council."
Moten jumped up, his bushy jowls shaking with fury. "How...how dare you? You 
are just abusing this privilege to get your way!"
Kealin grabbed the Dwarf's arm. "Relax, Moten. I anticipated this lowly move on 
the part of our Lord Knight, and I have an answer for it. You made your decision, 
Cordus Landsaver, and now I make mine. I have the right to call for a vote on your 
removal from power at any time and upon any grounds. Even during a time of war, an 
incompetent Lord Knight can be demoted."
"That's nonsense!" said Taris. "I would strongly question your motives 
concerning this matter, Kealin. You would have one of the greatest Lord Knights 
since Kuran Darkender lose his position because of a few Squires?"
"We must stick by our principals," said Krissana, the Birlote. "We cast our vote, 
and we cannot back down now. I stand with Kealin on this matter, and call for 
Cordus' immediate removal from power."
"Agreed," said Moten and Carn.
Taris shook his head in disbelief. "I never thought I would see the day when the 
High Council of Dremlock would sink to such a level."
Furlus stood up, hand on his battle axe. His eyes had turned light grey, almost 
white, and his skin was deep red--the signs of an Olrog about to engage in warfare to 
the death. "We shall see who is cast out and who isn't!"
"Furlus," sighed the Lord Knight. "Sit down and compose yourself. These 
Council members are exercising a legal right. The vote must be cast."
"And cast now!" said Kealin.
"You dare take a threatening stance against us?" Moten said to Furlus. "Perhaps 
we should call for another vote--to remove Furlus Goblincrusher from his seat as 
Tower Master on the grounds that he cannot control his temper."
Reluctantly, Furlus sat back down and folded his arms across his chest. "The time 
will come, Moten, when the vote is cast against you--when the truth about you is 
revealed. I await that day with fire in my blood."
Moten scowled, but for the first time, he appeared less than confident for a 
moment as he gazed into Furlus' eyes. 
"Cordus Landsaver," said Kealin, "has sided with lawbreakers. He has gone 
against everything Dremlock stands for, and he has gone against the will of the Divine 
Essence. Anyone in favor of his removal from power, raise your hand."
Kealin, Moten, Carn, and Krissana all raised hands. Trenton Shadowbane stared 
into the distance, his hands at his sides.
"Trenton?" questioned Kealin, his eyes reflecting uncertainty. "What are you 
doing?"
"What would you have me do?" said Trenton. "Cast out our great leader, Cordus 
Landsaver, over a few Squires? I think not. Do you take me for a fool? Do you think I 
want any of you to end up as Lord Knight? Anyone on the Council could pass that 
silly Divine Test and end up leading Dremlock. Yet I prefer the one who is in power 
now--even over myself. There is none better fit to lead us than Cordus."
"Then you back away from your principals," snapped Kealin, his voice shrill. 
"You are a coward, Trenton!"
Suddenly, Trenton Shadowbane growled like an animal, startling the Squires and 
some of the Council members. "Enough! My vote is cast, and I'll hear no more of it. I 
know of the darkness that lurks behind these walls. I know of the creeping disease that 
rots away all that is wholesome. Even the rains that bred life, before the great 
darkness, cannot wash away the stench of it."
"You're insane!" hissed Moten.
"Nevertheless," said Cordus. "Trenton has spoken. Whether you understand his 
words or not--you certainly understand his vote. This matter has been decided. 
Lannon Sunshield will remain a Squire, and I will remain Lord Knight."
Lannon nearly leapt out of his seat in excitement, but then he glanced towards the 
other Squires, and his heart sank. How could he go on without his friends?
"So be it," said Kealin, his face gone crimson. "But at least I can now have these 
other former Squires removed from my sight. Guards--come escort these youths to 
their rooms and keep watch over them until they can be sent home."
Two of the Red Knights came forward, looking uncertain.
"Hold on a moment!" said Vorden, standing up. The lad from Gravendar seemed 
to have quickly recovered his composure. 
Cordus glowered. "You better have something important to say, Vorden 
Flameblade, or banishment may be the least of your worries."
"Lannon cannot use the Eye without us!" Vorden blurted out. "We helped him 
unlock it. If you banish us, you can forget about the Eye."
"Is this true, Lannon?" asked Cordus.
Lannon nodded quickly. "That's right. I just can't do it on my own. I've tried lots 
of times, but it doesn't work."
"I see," said Cordus, a slight smile appearing on his lips. He gazed at Kealin, 
daring the Green Knight to oppose him. Then he focused again on Vorden. "Well, it 
seems you Squires have me over a barrel. And so for now, you shall all be escorted to 
the East Tower, where you will be placed under guard while I decide what to do about 
all this. If any one of you cause the slightest bit of trouble, I will personally take you 
down to Dremlock Dungeons and give you a new home."
"You won't get away with this, Cordus," Kealin said. "Justice will inevitably 
prevail, one way or another."
"I believe it already has," said Cordus. "Though there is certainly more justice 
that needs doing...when the time is right."
Elated, the Squires jumped up and followed the two guards. As Lannon walked 
away from the table, Kealin made a quick sign to the lad--pulling his fingers across 
his throat in an unmistakable gesture.
"It's your day, Lannon," he whispered, smiling. "Enjoy it while you can."
Chapter 13:  Whispers of Flame
When the Squires arrived at the East Tower, Aldreya was taken to her room and 
the boys were led to the Blue Squires' quarters. The two Red Knights warned the boys 
not to try to leave their rooms without permission and that they would be watched at 
all times. "You dodged an arrow, Squires," they said. "Anyone else would have been 
banished for what you did. But don't go trying to pull anything on us. The East Tower 
is on full alert, and which means that you-know-who is creeping around somewhere 
right outside your door."
"The Watcher?" said Vorden.
The guards glanced at each other. "Let's just say nothing you do will be a secret 
from this point on, so just do as you're told. If you need anything, or if you observe 
anything unusual, give a holler."
The boys were herded into their room and the door was closed and locked behind 
them. They suspected at least one of the guards was posted just outside, though no 
one checked. They sat close to each other on the beds, and kept their voices at a 
whisper, though at this point they had little to hide.
"I guess I should feel happy about remaining a Squire," said Vorden. "But I can't 
stop thinking about Clayith. Clayith was a good person deep inside, and I'm not proud 
of what I did. It was just an instinctive thing, I guess." Vorden gave a troubled sigh, 
running his fingers through his black hair. 
Lannon nodded. "I just wish there had been another way."
"I've thought of that, too," said Vorden. "It's not like Clayith knew what he was 
doing. But how was I supposed to know that?  All I knew what that he was trying to 
kill you, and I just reacted. I keep seeing it in my mind, and I don't like it. I don't like 
the thought that I killed an innocent person."
"There's nothing to be done about it now," said Jerret. "It's just a bad way things 
worked out. But hopefully we've learned our lesson." 
Timlin just sat watching, offering no opinion. For an instant, Lannon wondered 
what motivated the little fellow, if Timlin ever really cared about who lived or died. 
In some ways he was very likable, even sympathetic, yet in other ways he seemed 
strangely unfeeling towards others.
Timlin seemed to notice Lannon's scrutiny of him, and he lowered his gaze, 
looking uncomfortable. But he still said nothing.
"I guess I just need to put it out of my mind," said Vorden. "If I can, that is. It's 
not going to do me any good to dwell on it."
"But what's going on with that Kealin fellow?" said Jerret. "He didn't look too 
happy with you, Lannon."
"Not at all," Lannon agreed.
"It's obvious," said Vorden, "that Kealin and Moten, and maybe one or two other 
High Council members are corrupt. Kealin might even be involved with the Deep 
Shadow, like some of the rumors suggest. I don't think I'd want to be in your shoes, 
Lannon. They must see you as a threat, because you have the Eye of Divinity, and 
they probably sent Clayith to kill you."
"I just can't believe any of this," said Jerret. "What has Dremlock come to? The 
Knights should just round up anyone they suspect of having dealings with the Deep 
Shadow and imprison them."
"They can't do that," said Vorden. "They need evidence. Otherwise they would be 
just as bad as the guilty ones."
"That's stupid," muttered Jerret. "If they know who's evil, they should take them 
down--with or without evidence."
"They should kill them," said Timlin. "Before they kill Lannon."
"Not without evidence," Vorden insisted. "People have rights. Laws are 
important. I don't think either of you understand how it all works."
"I understand someone wants me dead," said Lannon. "I understand that Clayith 
was used against his will as my assassin. I'd rather see Kealin imprisoned on weak 
evidence than have him plotting to kill me. If he's the one, that is."
Vorden frowned. "I'm surprised at you, Lannon. You always seemed like you had 
a solid grasp on right and wrong."
"You're pretty righteous all of a sudden, Vorden," said Jerret, rolling his eyes. 
"What's got into you?"
"It's not that," said Vorden, looking away. "Like I said, I feel bad about what 
happened to Clayith. Maybe I'm just trying to get things in order, to figure out where I 
stand. Is there anything wrong with that?" He moved off to his bed and lay down, a 
troubled expression on his face.
"No, there's nothing wrong with that," Jerret said. "Clayith was my friend, but I 
know you did what you had to do. I don't hold it against you--at least not on the 
surface, I guess. Deep inside, who knows what I feel?"
The Squires fell silent. Lannon glanced about the room, where the shadows were 
deepening. "We should light a lantern," he said. 
They did so, and then lay down on their beds to sleep. For a long time no one 
spoke, as there was much on their minds, until Timlin finally broke the silence. "I'm 
just glad we're still Squires," he said. "Because before I was..." Timlin let his words 
trail off, and looked away sheepishly.
"Finish what you were saying," said Lannon.
"I guess I never really had anything," said Timlin, turning onto his side to face 
Lannon. "Now I feel like I belong, like I have something worthwhile. And I'm just 
glad I didn't lose it and end up back where I was."
"I feel the same way," said Lannon. "When I lived with my parents, things were a 
lot less interesting. They argued a lot, and my father was sick most of the time. Now I 
feel like I have some kind of future."
"I'd rather die than go back to my parents," said Timlin. "They were never nice to 
me, no matter what I did. My aunt was okay--a little strict, but not too bad. But living 
with her was really boring. We never did much, and I spent a lot of time just sitting 
home doing nothing, wishing I had someplace fun to go."
"I know the feeling," said Lannon. "It's like sometimes you think the rest of the 
world is moving on without you--like you have no place in it."
"Exactly," said Timlin. "But now that's all changed. I could be a Knight someday, 
and have anything I want. Even now, it all seems too good to be true."
Timlin turned away, and not long after that, he was asleep. Lannon rolled onto his 
back and adjusted his quilt. He thought back to the gesture Kealin had made--the 
fingers across the throat--and wondered if he should make sure the guards were still 
there. But then he decided they must be. After all, the Knights were not stupid, and 
Vesselin Hopebringer had said he would be watched closely. 
As he drifted towards sleep, his thoughts focused on his parents. If Goblins were 
threatening Kalamede and other places, were they in any danger? Their little valley 
was a long way off, but still it worried him, making him wish the Knights would take 
some sort of action to turn the tide, though he suspected they were doing all they 
could.
And then he slipped into a surprisingly deep sleep.
***
When Lannon awoke, he could barely move because of the Whispers. He had 
been dreaming of the Whispers. He had watched them in his mind as they 
materialized out of the shadows, taking physical form and becoming talons of flame 
that burrowed into his soul and froze him. His eyelids could move (they popped open 
as he awoke) and he could wiggle his toes and fingers, but that was about it. It was as 
if he were buried up to his head in sand. He panicked, and his heart beat furiously, yet 
he still couldn't move his arms or legs.
The Whispers were some form of dark sorcery unlike anything Lannon had ever 
imagined. They were alive--writhing serpents of flame and evil that sought only to 
stop a living being from moving. They fed off paralysis and grew stronger. Each surge 
of panic, and each failed attempt at movement, caused the Whispers to constrict ever 
tighter. They were of flame, yet they seared like ice.
Lannon knew what was happening, with a bloodcurdling dread that flooded his 
mind, and he realized both he and the Knights had made a terrible mistake. They had 
underestimated their enemies.
The lantern had gone out, and someone was moving towards him in the darkness, 
quiet footsteps that he could hear only because his training had sharpened his senses. 
Then a figure leaned over him. He knew this because the rustling of fabric was just 
above him. A moment later he saw a cold blue knife blade appear, and in its glow he 
saw a face that was a mask of shifting shadows. Glowering down at him were crazed 
eyes of a violet hue that burned into Lannon and invoked a haunting memory. 
There was no mistaking it. These were the eyes of Tenneth Bard, a man believed 
long dead. These were the eyes of the Black Knight, the founder of the Blood Legion, 
and the sworn enemy of Dremlock Kingdom. Lannon knew this beyond a doubt, 
because he had seen those same eyes on that stone statue in the ruins of Serenlock 
Castle. Only now, in reality, they were far more powerful and evil.
But Lannon could do nothing. The Whispers still held him frozen, and his vocal 
cords would not work, his scream lost in silence.
"Lannon Sunshield," came a quiet hiss. "At last I have you. You won't be causing 
me any trouble, boy. This is my time, and you must die!"
The knife blade glowed brighter, charged with some magical energy--soon to 
swipe down and piece Lannon's heart. He closed his eyes, hoping for a quick end if 
nothing else, and in desperation, he struggled to call forth the Eye. He did not believe 
he would succeed, but he knew he had to somehow or all was lost. He imagined 
Timlin and Vorden assisting him, and his body started to tingle.
Then, perhaps out of sheer desperation, his mind split, and the Eye of Divinity 
reached out, probing the figure before him. The things Lannon glimpsed might have 
driven him mad, for he observed the fringe of some terrible darkness that sought to 
drag him in. But then the Whispers became intertwined with the Eye of Divinity, and 
the Eye rebelled against them. The Eye suddenly shifted and became a physical power 
that seized the figure and held it motionless. 
The evil eyes widened in shock. Then the figure fought back furiously, striving to 
break the force that held its blade in check. "I'll slay you yet, Lannon Sunshield!" the 
dark form grunted, and slowly the blade began to descend. Lannon struggled with all 
his might, commanding the Eye to stop his assailant, yet it was a losing effort. In a 
moment the blade would come down into his chest.
In a last effort to save himself, Lannon diverted a small portion of his power to a 
bed next to his, flipping it over and knocking Timlin to the floor. "Hey!" Timlin 
yelled. "What's happening?"
Moments later the door opened, spilling torchlight into the room. A cloaked 
figure entered, holding a stone dagger that burned with green fire. A tongue of flame 
hurtled out from the dagger and burned into Lannon's attacker.
An explosion of sparks erupted, and the figure staggered to one side, its shoulder 
on fire. More tongues of flame shot out at him at him from the stone dagger, only this 
time the figure somehow eluded them and they burst against the stone wall, sending 
green sparks bouncing about the room.
"You'll die yet," the figure muttered at Lannon, and then, still partially on fire, it 
leapt out the open window and was gone.
The Whispers departed from Lannon, the burning fingers releasing his soul and 
vanishing, and he could move again. He sat up, feeling lightheaded and dizzy. The 
Eye of Divinity drew back inside him completely. Vorden, Timlin, and Jerret had all 
gotten up, and were staring on with wide eyes. Vorden held his axe at ready (the axe 
that had slain Clayith, Lannon thought numbly, as random emotions swirled through 
his mind). He directed his gaze on the one who had entered the room.
It was Taris Warhawk. Behind him were two Red Knights, their weapons drawn. 
One of them was holding a lantern. The two Knights ran to the window and peered 
out, muttering in disbelief. 
Taris calmly walked over to Lannon. "Are you alright?"
Lannon wasn't sure, but he nodded. He felt sick to his stomach, and still in the 
clutches of the darkness. He didn't even try to speak.
Taris turned to the guards. "Go to Cordus immediately. Organize a search of the 
Kingdom grounds. This would-be assassin must be caught!"
Bowing, the guards hurried off to do as ordered.
Taris walked to the window and peered out. "It’s a long way down," he said. 
"The fall should have killed him instantly, even if he landed in a heap of snow. Yet 
there is no sign of his crushed body below--no blood even! It’s as if he simply got up 
and walked away after falling hundreds of feet. Who could have done this? No one I 
know possesses that kind of power. It is very fortunate that I happened to be here 
talking to the guards when you were attacked. Did you get a look at him?"
Lannon nodded. He tried to steady himself enough to speak. "I know who it was, 
I think. He's supposed to be dead."
Taris went and knelt beside the boy, his green eyes narrowing. "Who was he, 
Lannon?"
"Tenneth Bard," Lannon whispered. 
"Tenneth Bard, the Black Knight," Taris said. "Yes, I think this is starting to 
make sense, now. When the search is ended, we must call a meeting at once. I would 
like to involve the Ranger as well. In fact, I would like to involve her in the search. 
Who better to track a man than a Ranger?"
Lannon and the other boys watched Taris in silence.
"If this is indeed Tenneth Bard," Taris said, turning to stare at Vorden, "we will 
not find him right away. His powers must have grown drastically. On the other hand, 
he wasn't expecting to get caught, so perhaps there is a chance. Well, am I right?"
Vorden nodded, obviously unsure of how to respond. "I think so."
Taris stood up. "These are grim events, my young friends. And yet the veil of 
mystery has, perhaps, been partially lifted. The answers to the riddles that have 
haunted Dremlock may at last be within our reach."
Taris motioned to Timlin. "Come here."
Trembling, Timlin hurried over and stood before him.
"Did you see anything?" Taris asked. 
Timlin nodded. "Just a glimpse." He closed his eyes for a moment. "Wait--I 
remember something. He carried something in his hand--not the knife, but in his other 
hand. Something dark and round. He pulled it against his chest as he jumped out the 
window. And his face was strange, like shifting shadows."
Taris looked beyond the lad, gazing into apparent nothingness. A light of 
understanding was in his eyes. "I must say, Squires, that I think there may be hope for 
this old kingdom yet--something I wasn't quite sure of just a short time ago."
The others could only stare at him in confusion. Lannon clutched his stomach. He 
could still feel the Whispers inside him--just a memory now, but still potent enough to 
make him ill. In the back of his mind he realized the Eye of Divinity had saved him, 
that he had called it forth on his own and it had changed form and become a different 
type of force. But at the moment, it didn't seem to matter. Tenneth Bard was alive, 
perhaps more powerful than ever, and he wanted Lannon dead. In his shocked state of 
mind, Lannon felt that surely the Black Knight would eventually get his way, that no 
one could stop him.
The Whispers would make sure Lannon met his doom.
Chapter 14:  The Secret Meeting
For the rest of that night, and the following day, Taris personally guarded 
Lannon. Mostly Taris was a silent companion who spoke only when necessary, and he 
refused to discuss the current situation at Dremlock. As the day progressed, Furlus 
dropped by now and then, and each time he and Taris went into the corner and talked 
quietly. The Squires assumed they were discussing the search for Lannon's would-be 
assassin and wished they could hear what was being said. 
At one point, Taris took Lannon to the Library to talk privately with the lad about 
what had happened the night before. Lannon explained how he had called forth the 
Eye, and how it had changed form, slowing Tenneth Bard's attack.
"Much about the Eye of Divinity is mysterious," said Taris. "Even the most 
powerful of the Dark Watchmen did not know all of its secrets. Yet it appears you've 
already made slight use of the Body stage of the Eye, which is very remarkable for 
someone as inexperienced as you."
"What more can you tell me about the Eye," asked Lannon, "that will help me use 
it more effectively."
"We have one book at Dremlock," said Taris, "that specifically deals with the 
topic. It is a collection of the Dark Watchmens' writings. Long ago, the Eye of 
Divinity was more common, and the Knights who possessed it organized themselves 
into a special group whose goal was to unlock the mysteries of the Deep Shadow. 
These Dark Watchmen were successful in their task, as many secrets about our enemy 
were revealed, giving us an advantage. However, they probed too deeply into the 
affairs of the Deep Shadow, and some became possessed by it or went insane. After 
that, the group was disbanded.
"Yet the Dark Watchmen--for all they learned about the Deep Shadow--knew 
little about the workings of their own mysterious power. Yet that is the nature of the 
Eye of Divinity--it is very unpredictable. Once it is unlocked, there are no established 
rules for using it. What works for some may not work for others. It can be very 
frustrating at times to try to understand it. However, as I mentioned, they left notes 
and letters--different techniques that can be attempted."
"Can I see the book?" Lannon asked excitedly.
Taris sat in thoughtful silence for a while before answering. "I don't feel you are 
ready yet for such knowledge. It might only make things harder for you. You will 
learn on your own for now--as you have done so, impressively, already. But there 
may come a time when you can go no further and have need of the book. The power 
you possess is what led the Dark Watchmen to a bad end. Always bear that in mind. 
We must watch you closely as your training progresses and make sure you don't meet 
the same fate as the others before you, that you take things slow and don't delve too 
deeply into the workings of the Deep Shadow. The book could be dangerous for you 
to read right now."
Lannon gave a disappointed nod.
"You're afraid," said Taris. "You think we cannot protect you, that Tenneth Bard 
will somehow get to you again and destroy you. Am I right?"
"I am afraid," Lannon admitted. "Those Whispers were powerful. I couldn't even 
move. If the Eye hadn't come out... "
"But it did," said Taris. "And it could do so again."
"But it wasn't strong enough," said Lannon. "If you hadn't come along, I would 
have been killed."
Taris was thoughtful. At last he said, "The Eye is a powerful force. The question 
is whether or not your own will is strong enough for you to wield it properly. It 
appears that at this time the answer is no. But that could change."
"How?" said Lannon.
"Age and experience is one way," said Taris. "There may come a time when you 
can stand against Tenneth Bard, yet I cannot guarantee it. If he actually still lives, his 
powers are unknown to me. But at least, with a stronger will, you would have a better 
chance of defeating him."
"If I live that long," Lannon said gloomily.
Taris nodded. "Yes, if you live that long. The Knights will do their best to protect 
you, but nothing is certain."
"Kealin Lightsword didn't seem to like me much," said Lannon. "So that's 
someone else I apparently have to watch out for."
Taris nodded. "I saw the gesture he made to you--as if he wanted you dead. But 
there is nothing to be done about it at this time. Kealin is a Green Knight, protected by 
our laws, and right now we lack evidence against him. Moten, the Grey Dwarf, is 
another suspicious character. We've been investigating those two for some time, but 
they are sly. If they dwelt in the East Tower rather than the North, I might have 
exposed them long ago for the corrupt men they are, for very little of what happens 
here is not known to me."
"If that's true," said Lannon, "why didn't you know we snuck out the other night, 
when we went below the Temple?"
"I did know," said Taris. "I also knew of your journey beneath Old Keep, and I 
got word to the Dark Knights below, which is why you were saved from that Ogre. 
Did you think one of the Knights just happened along?" 
Lannon stared in speechless shock for a moment. Then he said, "If you knew, 
why didn't you punish us?"
"I did," said Taris. "Forcing you to view the horrors in the Dungeon was my 
punishment to dissuade you from ever going back into Old Keep. Nothing exists 
down there but the shadows of doom." 
"Then you knew I had use of the Eye," said Lannon.
"Yes," said Taris. "But I didn't report it to the other Knights. I wanted to learn 
just what you were up to, Lannon. And now I know that you were acting honorably, 
and for a good cause--though a Squire has met his end in the process."
"You mean..." Lannon began.
Taris nodded. "I believe you were meant to see the Divine Essence. Therefore, I 
did not try to stop you when you left the tower. I wanted you to reach the Temple and 
see the Essence."
"You wanted me to break the Sacred Laws?"
"Of course not," said Taris. "But the Divine Essence must never be ignored. After 
all, it made the Laws in the first place. Don't try to understand what motivates me, 
Lannon Sunshield. I have my reasons."
Lannon said nothing, staring at the tabletop.
Taris chuckled. "You look stricken. But fear not, I'm on your side at the moment. 
I just wanted to tell you this so you would realize that the Tower of Sorcery is not 
ignorant of what takes place within it. There is no safer place for you in all of 
Dremlock than the East Tower. But no place in this world is entirely safe, and 
unfortunately that assassin was somehow able to get to you unseen."
"If you know so much," Lannon said, "then why didn’t you know about Clayith?"
"I knew he had come here," said Taris. "But I did not know why. Some things 
even I cannot know without further examination. Had I been able to talk with the boy, 
I might have realized he was possessed."
Taris sighed. "The Deep Shadow is a tricky foe."
"Did you really know about everything we were doing?" said Lannon. For some 
reason, he doubted Taris' words.
Taris' face hardened for a moment, but then he smiled. "You don't believe me? I 
have spies all over this tower, including the Watcher, who cannot be seen when he 
doesn't wish himself to be."
Lannon shrugged. "I'm just not sure."
Taris grinned. "You're a smart lad. I will admit that you are right in your 
suspicion--but only to a point. You and your friends were trained well as Blue 
Squires, and with many of our Knights out on important missions, this tower is not as 
secure as it used to be."
"Then I'm not as safe as you suggested," said Lannon.
"This is the safest place for you in Dremlock," said Taris, "which is why you are 
here. Will it be enough to protect you from an assassin who can climb icy walls and 
survive a fall from the top of this tower? Sadly, I cannot say for sure."
"I have something more to tell you," said Lannon. "It's about the Divine 
Essence." He explained what he'd learned to Taris--about how their god was actually 
just a lonesome, scared child.
Taris smiled. "This is not unknown to me. The White Guardian was very young 
when it was shattered. But it still possesses wisdom beyond us mortals. It revealed 
that knowledge to you for a reason--one that is difficult to understand at this time. A 
great puzzle lies before us, Lannon, and it may take a long time before all the pieces 
fit together and we can see beyond the haze of the Deep Shadow that shrouds our 
vision."
***
Once evening arrived, Taris told the Squires to put on their cloaks. "We must get 
Aldreya and travel to the Temple," he told them. "A secret meeting has been arranged 
there, and none must know of it but the ones invited."
As they left the tower and started along the trail, a full moon hung in the sky, its 
pale light glistening off the snow and ice. The night air was frigid. At one point a 
Midnight Crow soared overhead, and Taris pulled the Squires into the shadows until it 
passed by. Midnight Crows were rumored to be servants of the Deep Shadow, and 
Taris' attempt to hide them from this one gave that rumor much credibility in the 
Squires' minds. As usual, wolf howls echoed about the woods.
When they arrived, the sorcerer led them into the sanctuary, to the round room 
where the altar was. The stone slab that covered the altar lay at the bottom of the 
steps, cracked into pieces. A message was burned into the floor: 
DEATH HERE SOON
Several lanterns were alight that cast flickering shadows upon the walls and 
domed ceiling. Cordus and Furlus were already seated, as well as the Ranger woman 
Saranna that Lannon had met along the North Road on his way to Dremlock. Her 
black wolf lay by her, his head resting between his paws.
Also present were a Blue Knight and a Red one. The Blue Knight was a Birlote, 
tall and lanky and bearing two short swords at his waist. His green eyes glittered 
dangerously in the torchlight and he had a hard, weathered face. The Red Knight was 
a handsome black-haired man, probably in his late thirties, with a thick mustache and 
blue eyes. His arms and neck bulged with muscle, but his waist was noticeably lean, 
giving him a powerful yet athletic appearance. He wore a silver breastplate and 
carried both sword and longbow.
Once everyone was seated, Cordus spoke. "This is not an official meeting, so 
we'll avoid any formalities. You are all free to speak. The reason this gathering has 
been conducted in secrecy is because, as I'm sure all of you know, some of the High 
Council members cannot be trusted. This is a critical moment for Dremlock, as 
Goblins are advancing upon us. Several Goblin Lords have been spotted amongst 
them. For now we are safe, as it is highly doubtful they can get through Darkender 
Tunnel. Yet it is our duty to protect the towns and dwellings that exist close to our 
kingdom.
"We continue to be haunted by the Goblin Puzzle. It is a complicated affair, but 
the basic riddle that we need solved is how to permanently defeat a Goblin Lord. They 
seem to be invincible. Since they began appearing over a year ago--from a place that 
remains a mystery to us--we've not found a way to kill a single one! It does no good 
even to hack them to bits, for they will just become whole again. The flesh binds itself 
together instantly and full health is restored. This is a seemingly impossible power the 
likes of which has never been witnessed by the servants of Dremlock Kingdom.
"That's why we need you, Lannon Sunshield, to use the Eye of Divinity upon a 
Goblin Lord to try to find a weakness. But first we must confront one. Dremlock is 
bordering on ruin. Many of our Knights are dead, and many have abandoned us. A 
sizable force is defending Kalamede but swiftly losing ground, while another force is 
attempting to head off the Goblins advancing toward Dremlock. Neither force is 
impressively large. Yet enough Knights remain that we could prevail--but only if we 
can kill the Goblin Lords. We know where your would-be assassin went, Lannon. We 
tracked him right here to the Temple. We intend to take a small party below and try to 
find him. He appears to have gone through the left door below, which has a wheel 
lock that we no longer know how to open. Yet somehow, as far as we can tell, he 
managed to solve it."
"He went through that door," said Saranna. "Darius is never wrong." She patted 
her wolf on the head.
"What about the Divine Essence?" said Lannon, his heartbeat racing. "Has it been 
harmed?"
"I've checked on it," said Cordus, "and it's fine. It's doubtful that anyone could 
harm our god. Its power is the very opposite of the Deep Shadow, and dark sorcery 
would undoubtedly only falter against it."
"We must not underestimate the Deep Shadow," said Taris. "Even the Divine 
Essence may not be safe from it's evil."
"Will you be leading the search party?" said Furlus.
"It would be better if I didn't," said Cordus. "I should remain here to make sure 
Dremlock has a worthy leader and to be ready in case of an attack. The party shall be 
made up of you, Taris, Caldrek, Shennen, and the four Squires. It must be kept small 
and rely on stealth. I chose Caldrek and Shennen because they are the best at what 
they do. I could not have picked two better, or more trustworthy, men for this task. I 
don't like the idea of sending Squires into the mines, but apparently I have no choice." 
He sighed. "It's a shame, Lannon, that you depend on the others to help you summon 
the Eye of Divinity. I can only hope you're being truthful, as their lives will be at 
risk."
"He's telling the truth," said Vorden. "He needs us."
Jerret fidgeted uncomfortably and glanced at Aldreya.
Lannon stayed quiet, taking comfort in the fact that it was at least partially true. 
As far as he knew, he still needed Vorden and Timlin to summon the Eye.
"We believe," said Cordus, "there are other wheel locks down there which we 
cannot open. Otherwise, the Squires wouldn't be needed."
The Red Knight, Caldrek, shook his head in disgust. "I find it absurd that the 
Lord Knight and his Tower Masters should encounter places in our kingdom we 
cannot access. What were we thinking in designing such locks?"
"The locks are necessary," said Furlus. "They have protected Dremlock from 
invasion both above ground and below for centuries. If their secrets have been 
forgotten in some cases, whose fault is that? Not the Olrogs who forged them."
"The search party," said Cordus, "shall depart this very evening. Time grows 
short and we can wait no longer. Once this task is complete, we must take Lannon to 
confront a Goblin Lord. But right now it is necessary to learn what kind of threat 
exists down in the mines."
"Do you know who the assassin is?" Caldrek asked.
"We have no clue," said Cordus.
"Actually," said Taris, "Lannon thinks he knows. Why don't you tell the others 
what you believe, Lannon?"
Lannon hesitated, his eyes fixed on the floor. He could imagine how they might 
react to what Taris wanted him to say. Finally he said, "I think it was Tenneth Bard, 
the Black Knight."
The Knights exchanged surprised glances. Saranna looked confused.
"But that's impossible," said Cordus. "Were that true, he would have to be 
hundreds of years old. No Norack man can live that long."
"On the contrary," said Taris. "The aging process can be slowed dramatically, 
even stopped in some cases. Throughout history elite sorcerers have managed it--only 
to end up dying of other causes."
"Yet I can scarcely bring myself to believe it could actually be Tenneth Bard," 
said Cordus, "whose statue still stands in the ruins of Serenlock."
"I, too, find this hard to believe," said Caldrek.
"It's ridiculous," said Furlus.
"It was him!" said Lannon, surprised at his own insistence. "I recognized his 
eyes."
"Just his eyes?" scoffed Furlus. "Who can recognize a man by his eyes alone? 
Further proof is needed to back such a claim."
"I believe what you say, Lannon," said Taris. "And bear in mind," he said to the 
others, "that the Eye of Divinity reveals many truths."
A moment of silence followed. Then Cordus said, "Regardless, we know our 
enemy is powerful, and so we must proceed with great caution." He pointed to where 
the top of the altar lay shattered in pieces. "We're dealing with a foe that even fully 
trained Knights might not be a match for--which is why I must send my best fighters. 
Now I believe Saranna has something important to tell us."
"Despite the weapons and other supplies Dremlock sent to us," Saranna said, with 
bitterness in her voice, "the North Road has fallen to the Goblins. The Rangers that 
managed to escape have vowed never to return there. I myself share that vow. Yet I 
have come here not just to bring the bad news, but also to see if I can somehow help 
in your war against the Goblins. They killed many of my good friends. I want to play 
a part in their downfall."
As Lannon watched her speak, he admired her courage and beauty. Her auburn 
hair was pulled back in a ponytail, just as it had been the first time he had seen her, 
but now her green eyes held a hurt, defiant look. Her rugged chain mail bore 
unmistakable claw marks. Just gazing at her caused his own courage to swell, and he 
sat a little taller and straighter.
"So you want revenge?" said Cordus.
"If that's what you wish to call it," said Saranna. "Goblins are my sworn enemy, 
and I'll see them all destroyed, if I'm able."
"Whatever your reason," said Cordus, "we gladly accept your help. We can use 
your tracking skills to hunt down our enemies below ground. Though you are not a 
Knight, it would please me to have you join the party I'm sending into the mines."
"I'll go," Saranna said quickly.
Cordus nodded, and then his gaze on fell on Taris. "So you actually believe 
Tenneth Bard yet lives. But what would he have been doing all this time? Hiding out 
somewhere, dreaming of revenge?"
"Not merely hiding," said Taris. "The Blood Legion has been around throughout 
the centuries, making mischief. I believe he may have continued to lead it in secrecy. 
Or perhaps he went away for a while and has recently returned. It is a grand mystery, 
and we're not close to solving it." 
"I'll speak to the other High Council members," said Cordus. "We'll finish 
preparing Dremlock for war and send some of our Knights down the mountainside to 
protect Hollow Deep and the surrounding dwellings. Yet our kingdom needs a strong 
final defense, since it is possible, though very unlikely, they could find a way through 
Darkender Tunnel. Or they may try to scale the walls or mountainside--a very difficult 
but certainly not impossible feat, especially for Goblins."
"I would place many defenders at Darkender Tunnel," said Taris. "If the assassin 
went below, he must know how to solve a wheel lock. The wheel locks might all be 
worthless now, if their ultimate secret has been discovered. I would gather half of 
your forces near the Tunnel mouth, and the other half here at the Temple, in case of 
an attack from below. Also, I would have some of the more highly trained Squires 
prepared for battle as well. And put our special Knights on alert, if they haven't been 
already."
Cordus sat quietly for a moment, and then nodded. "Your advice is sound, Taris. 
I'll certainly consider it."
"Won't the rest of the High Council question our absence?" said Taris. "Maybe 
Furlus should remain above ground, to draw away suspicion."
"What do you think of that idea, Furlus?" said Cordus.
"I'm going with the search party," Furlus said. "I haven't had a chance to wield 
my axe in quite some time. Taris, why don't you stay behind?"
"I need to remain with Lannon," said Taris.
"The party needs an Olrog," said Cordus, "to help navigate the mines. I have 
chosen Furlus to lead the party because of his navigational abilities and knowledge of 
the mines--both of which are unmatched in Dremlock. (Furlus beamed at these words, 
looking smugly at Taris.) Yet we also need sharp Birlote instincts to warn of danger, 
as well as your vast knowledge of sorcery, Taris, in dealing with a foe who obviously 
uses magic. Both of you will go on this quest. I'll deal with the High Council myself, 
if they grow suspicious. I have authority here, and they must obey me."
"What if another vote for your removal is called?" said Taris.
"They can call another vote," said Cordus, "but the entire High Council must be 
present for it to be carried out. If it isn't, new Council members must be temporarily 
appointed in place of the missing ones. By then, you should be back from your 
journey."
"And if we are not?" said Taris.
"This must be done," said Cordus.
Caldrek nodded in agreement. Shennen, the Birlote, continued to sit in silence, 
his hard face empty of expression. He appeared relaxed, yet watchful--his eyes taking 
in everything around him. His hands were never far from his short swords.
"Now unless there is anything else," said Cordus, "we should get our plan 
underway."
"Agreed," said Furlus, standing up. "We should gather food and water, extra 
torches or lanterns, blankets, and matches. We don't know how long we're going to be 
down there. We also will need plenty of rope, grapple hooks, iron spikes, and 
hammers, as well as medical supplies."
"I could send a White Knight," said Cordus.
Furlus shook his head. "The going may be rough, and a healer might only slow us 
down. We'll just have to take our chances."
"Then let us begin," said Cordus. 
The others waited at the Temple while Taris and Furlus went to gather supplies. 
Soon they returned. Some muttered words were exchanged between them as they 
entered the chamber bearing sacks stuffed with the items. The supplies were quickly 
distributed among the Knights and the Squires.
"If the danger below becomes too extreme," said Cordus, "or if there is evidence 
of a trap, turn back at once. Dremlock cannot afford to lose its Tower Masters or the 
one who possesses the Eye of Divinity. Your goal is not so much to hunt down an 
assassin as it is to see what might be going on down there in this area of the mines. 
We need to know if a significant threat lurks below."
"We'll do our spy work," said Furlus, "and bring back the assassin."
"He won't escape us," Caldrek said confidently. 
"I believe the fate of our kingdom will be decided below," said Cordus. "Good 
luck to you all." With that, the Lord Knight left the Temple, leaving Dremlock's fate 
in the hands of his Tower Masters, two specialists, and five uncertain youths.
Chapter 15:  The Goblin Puzzle
With Furlus leading the way, they readied their weapons and descended the steps 
that led below the altar. Saranna stayed at the rear to guard the Squires' backs, her 
saber in hand and her wolf at her side. The Squires all carried lanterns, leaving the 
adults free to more easily wield their weapons. On the way down, Vorden whispered 
something to Jerret and Aldreya that no one else could catch a word of.
As they stood before the wheel lock, Vorden and Timlin got on either side of 
Lannon, while Jerret, looking uncomfortable, took a position behind him and placed 
his hand on Lannon's back. For a moment, Aldreya stood next to Taris, looking 
uncertain. Then she stepped forward and also placed her hand on Lannon's back.
Lannon could feel the Tower Masters gazing at him, and he wasn't immediately 
able to summon the Eye due to his nervousness. Also, the two hands pressed into his 
back were distracting, though Lannon realized Jerret and Aldreya were simply 
pretending to be helping with the process.
After several failed attempts, the Knights began to grow restless. "Is there 
anything we can do to help?" asked Furlus. 
"Are we distracting you?" asked Taris.
Lannon shook his head. "Sometimes it takes awhile."
"What are these Squires up to?" said Caldrek, to Taris.
Taris did not reply, and they all waited in silence.
At last the Eye emerged, and a moment later Lannon had solved the wheel lock. 
As the wheel stopped spinning and the click arose, Caldrek whispered in awe, "The 
Eye of Divinity," to Shennen.
Shennen nodded. "Only the Eye could do this."
Furlus clapped Lannon on the back. "Good work, boy!"
All of Lannon's attention had been focused on the lock, but now, acting on a 
whim, Lannon turned and directed the Eye upon Taris Warhawk. And he saw nothing. 
The Eye of Divinity reached forth, probing the Birlote sorcerer from head to toe, but 
the only thing that came to Lannon's mind was an image of darkness. Then he realized 
that Taris was smiling at him from beneath his hood.
"You wish to learn my secrets?" Taris mused. "Yet you have not mastered your 
powers well enough for that task. I do not wield the power of Tharnin, if that is what 
you're wondering. My mind and body are shielded from you for another reason. You 
should beware of what you gaze upon, young Lannon, until you're able to deal with 
the things you are shown. You still have much to learn."
Embarrassed, Lannon turned away. As he did so, Darius, who was sniffing 
around by the door, suddenly let out a warning growl. Before the others could react, 
the door of Glaetherin burst open, knocking Darius aside, and something dark leapt 
through, long talons swiping at Lannon. Lannon caught a glimpse of half-developed 
bat wings, a rodent-shaped head that had no eyes and tapered into a wolf-snout, and 
long, crooked arms that ended in clusters of deadly claws. A sickening stench--both 
physical and of evil itself--flooded the passageway. The will of the Deep Shadow 
gripped their souls. 
It was a Bloodfang, like the one the Squires had glimpsed in the dungeons below 
Old Keep. Only this one was not caged.
Screeching insanely, the Bloodfang hurtled at Lannon with a blur of wings, teeth, 
and claws. But Furlus grabbed Lannon with one meaty hand before the beast could 
maul him and tossed him out of harm's way. The Blood Fang's claws ripped into 
Furlus' plate armor, and the Grey Dwarf was born backwards to the floor, locked in a 
death struggle. The claws tore at his chest, while the teeth sought to pierce his throat. 
Furlus fought furiously, protecting himself with his hands and knees. His great beard 
helped to defend his throat, for the creature's claws became momentarily tangled in it.
The others recovered from their surprise. Caldrek leapt at the beast, and Taris 
raised his burning stone dagger. But Shennen got there first. His shimmering short 
swords moved with blinding speed, cleaving deep wounds in the Bloodfang, yet he 
failed to dislodge it from Furlus.
Caldrek plunged his own gleaming blade into the monster's back an instant later, 
which caused a shudder to run through the Bloodfang but again could not drive it off 
of Furlus. Cursing, the Red Knight twisted the blade around inside the beast--but to 
no avail. The Goblin still refused to give up on the Grey Dwarf. 
Saranna reacted slower than the other two, but made the most effective move, 
slicing her saber deep into the Bloodfang's neck in an effort to behead it. But as good 
a stroke as it was, the razor-sharp blade still could not cleave all the way through the 
knotty flesh and bone. The Bloodfang screeched and loosened its grip some, swiping 
at Saranna with one claw that shredded her chain mail and drew blood. Meanwhile, 
Darius lunged at the monster and bit into one of its legs.
The Squires stared on helplessly, their faces gone pale. In Lannon's shock, the 
Eye of Divinity retreated partially back into him, and he could only lie on the floor 
where Furlus had thrown him and watch as the frantic struggle took place.
Then Taris hurled a blinding fireball from his dagger and it exploded into a 
shower of sparks against the Bloodfang's skull. The Goblin collapsed on top of Furlus 
and went limp, green smoke rising from its head and dark blood pouring from its 
jaws.
Furlus lay coughing and sputtering for a moment, and then he shoved the creature 
off of him. He wiped the foul Goblin blood from his beard. Then he clambered up 
from the floor. "One less filthy Goblin," he remarked.
They studied the fallen monster. A steel chain was fastened to its leg, leading 
beyond the door to an iron ring embedded in the tunnel floor.
"Placed here to guard the passageway," said Caldrek. "Not a bad choice, I must 
say. I've never seen a Goblin quite like it."
"There are worse ones down here," Furlus said grimly.
Shennen knelt by the creature, his cold eyes glittering in the lantern light. "Who 
could have captured one of these in such a manner? A simple chain on its leg? Surely 
the beast would have torn its captor apart." 
The others had no answer.
They gathered by the doorway.  As they watched in tense silence, a figure 
stepped from the shadows and began walking towards them down the tunnel. It was a 
Goblin Lord--a Foul Brother dressed in a black robe and carrying a dark, twisted 
scepter that seemed to radiate a purple glow. Black runes were painted on its bald 
head and face, making its cunning, evil eyes stand out. It grinned at them, showing 
yellow, lumpy teeth. "Greetings, Knights of the Divine Order," it hissed.
Taris pulled Lannon near to him, and called forth the fire into his dagger.
The others readied their weapons.
None among the party had imagined such an event would occur. A Goblin Lord 
in the mines beneath Dremlock was strange enough. Yet for it to walk casually 
towards them, its staff held loosely in its hand, was a sight no one was prepared for. 
For several moments no one said a word. The Goblin stopped just a few yards away 
from them, its grin broadening into sheer malicious glee.
Then Taris Warhawk spoke. "What game have you come to play, showing 
yourself so boldly?"
The Goblin Lord gave a choked-sounding laugh. "I want the same thing you 
want. I've come to give you what you seek."
The others stood silent, confused.
"The Eye of Divinity," said the Goblin Lord, its black eyes growing wide. "You 
wish to use it on me? Well, isn't that correct? You want to find my weakness. The 
boy..." It pointed a bony finger at Lannon. "Go on, lad, use your power upon me. I 
will not resist."
Trembling, Lannon glanced towards Taris.
"Do nothing, Lannon," said Taris, "until I tell you to."
"Why hesitate?" said the Goblin Lord. "Now is your chance, while I give it 
freely."
"This is a trap of some sort," said Furlus. "Obviously."
"No trap," said the Goblin Lord. "Just an offer."
"We don't want your filthy offer," said Furlus.
Caldrek stroked his mustache, shaking his head. His blue eyes were narrowed 
into slits. "How dare you show your face like this? So many friends of mine perished 
trying to rid Silverland of your evil..."
"And more will perish, feeble Knight," said the Goblin Lord. "That is--if 
Dremlock does not surrender. You know what is taking place. You know that I serve 
a master who seeks your downfall. And you know that Goblins are no longer mindless 
animals hunted down by the Knights of Dremlock for their amusement. We have a 
voice now and a purpose. You speak of your companions who were killed? What of 
my brothers, who have been hunted mercilessly by the so-called Divine Knights for 
centuries?"
"That's different!" growled Caldrek. "Everyone knows Goblins are the filthy 
spawn of the Deep Shadow. None of you are fit to live."
"And I say the same of your race," said the Goblin Lord.
"Your race was hunted by us Knights," said Taris, "because of your aggressions 
against Birlotes, Noracks, and Olrogs. Had you lived peacefully, Dremlock would 
have had no need to make war on you. But time and again, you have risen against us. 
Time and again, you have killed unjustly. That is why we seek to banish you from 
Silverland."
The Goblin's grin twisted into a sneer. "I have not come to beg mercy for 
Goblins, Tower Master. We neither need it nor desire it. It is the Divine Knights who 
will beg for mercy from us, soon enough. Now, will you accept my offer?"
Shennen stepped towards the Goblin Lord. "You have a weakness. Now it is my 
turn to search for it. And I do not fail so easily!"
"Wait a moment, Shennen," said Taris. "Maybe we do want his offer. Let the 
Goblin first tell us exactly what it entails. If the offer proves unworthy, you may then 
put your skills to the test. All of us will--and I very much doubt even a Goblin Lord 
could survive an attack by all of us combined." 
The Goblin Lord went into a laughing fit, snorting and drooling. "No need for 
that, I assure you. My offer is simple. I will allow the Eye of Divinity to be used on 
me because I have no weakness. I will prove to you beyond a doubt that Goblin Lords 
are invincible, that Dremlock's fate is sealed. And then you will have no choice but to 
surrender."
"Surrender?" rumbled Furlus. "We shall see about that. I've heard enough of this 
nonsense. Let's see if you can put yourself back together again when Furlus 
Goblincrusher gets done with you!"
Taris stepped towards the Goblin Lord. "You think we are fools? Taris Warhawk 
is no fool. I have seen through your plan. Somehow, you know Lannon isn't ready to 
see the things you would show him, that he might find your weakness but not be able 
to speak of it because he would be driven mad."
The Goblin Lord glanced about with uncertainty and backed up a step. It held its 
gnarled staff before it in a defensive posture. Whether invincible or not, fear was 
clearly reflected in its dark eyes as its gaze passed over the party. It backed up another 
step, its muscled tensed as if in preparation to flee.
"But nevertheless," Taris said, "we will accept your offer."
Its eyes widening in surprise, the Goblin Lord hissed, "You will use the Eye on 
me?"
Taris nodded. "Lannon, release the Eye of Divinity upon the Goblin."
"What are you doing?" said Furlus. "If this is a trap, why are we going along with 
it? I say let's settle this the way an Olrog would! As you said, the boy could lose his 
sanity. We should not risk this, Taris."
"Leave this to me," said Taris, placing his hand on Lannon's shoulder. "I have 
prepared myself well for this situation."
Lannon stared at the Goblin Lord, hesitating. The Eye was still unlocked, waiting 
to either be sent forth or be sealed away. But what was this talk of him being driven 
mad? What would he see when he probed the Goblin?
"Do not be afraid," said Taris. "You can do this, Lannon."
Taris' words eased Lannon's mind somewhat, and he slowly reached out with the 
Eye, probing the outer surface of the Goblin Lord. He intended to proceed with 
caution, but the Eye was suddenly sucked into the Goblin Lord, revealing its secrets in 
a rush of feelings and images. Lannon saw and felt something abhorrent to nature, a 
mutating of life that had come to resemble a sort of living death. A dark power bound 
this creature together--one that radiated from its heart, which was protected by a thick 
shell of bone and existed in the lower back. As long as this heart was intact, it could 
bind the creature back together again under most any circumstances. To kill the 
Goblin Lord, the heart would have to be utterly destroyed--burned completely into 
ashes by magical fire.
But the Eye of Divinity probed deeper, revealing that the Goblin Lord did not 
actually possess the power that it appeared to possess. It was only a powerful illusion 
placed in the minds of those who confronted it. Goblin Lords did not regenerate after 
being cut into pieces, because it only appeared that they were cut into pieces. The 
blades actually hacked through empty air. The Knights would have to see through that 
illusion and destroy the Goblin Lord's heart that was the source of all its power. It 
would not be an easy task, but it could be done.
Lannon had seen enough, and he tried to draw the Eye back inside him. But this 
Goblin was a puppet controlled by the Deep Shadow, and Lannon could not stop 
himself from delving into it. The Eye groped about, finding the threads that bound the 
Goblin to its master, and then it followed them to the source.
Lannon found himself drawn into a realm from which he could not escape. He 
felt a sense of coldness and loss beyond reason. It was as if his flesh had been stripped 
away, and all that remained of him was a ghostlike entity trapped in the Shadow 
Realm. Ages seemed to pass in the black silence, and Lannon's life of before became 
vague and shadowy, dreamlike. Lannon suspected that once he had dwelt in another 
world outside the Shadow Realm, but that it had been so long ago that the gateway to 
that world no longer existed. Regardless, he certainly could not find it in this endless 
void. Lannon felt that he would dwell in the Shadow Realm for infinity.
But then came Taris' whisper, faint and distant, telling him to abandon that place 
and come back to the world of the living. The whisper inspired hope, making Lannon 
wonder if indeed there was something beyond the great darkness, and he willed 
himself towards the sound of it. The whisper sought to lure him on, but Lannon lost 
his grasp on it. He thought he would never regain it.
Yet the whisper suddenly called to him again, much fainter than before. Lannon 
followed it, and this time it grew louder, until it became a command to wake him. 
Green eyes gleamed in the darkness, and burning fingers reached into his soul.
"Wake up!" Taris commanded.
Lannon's eyes sprang open and he sat up, his body trembling. The others stood 
over him looking relieved. The Eye of Divinity had drawn all the way inside him, and 
the Goblin Lord was gone from the passageway.
"We need to burn their hearts," said Lannon.
Chapter 16:  Dark Evidence
Everyone was gathered around Lannon, exchanging anxious and concerned 
glances. Lannon stood up. He felt strangely refreshed, as if he had just awakened from 
a long slumber. His body felt light, his mind bubbling over with enthusiasm. In an 
excited voice, he told them exactly what he had seen--where the Goblin Lord's heart 
was located in its body, how it was encased in a protective shell of bone, and how the 
heart must be thoroughly destroyed.
"It's just an illusion," said Lannon. "Whenever Knights attack the Goblin Lords, 
they aren't actually making contact with them. So the Goblin Lords only appear to be 
invincible. But they're still very powerful, which is why it's necessary to destroy their 
hearts."
Taris smiled. "Sometimes, one only needs to appear invincible to actually be 
invincible. Their plan worked perfectly. Until now, that is." 
"That was easy enough," said Furlus. "But we're not through yet. That Goblin 
Lord has escaped, and we still have the assassin to deal with."
"As soon as you blacked out," said Taris, "the Goblin fled down the tunnel. It 
must have realized it had overstayed its welcome."
"What happened to me?" asked Lannon.
"The Deep Shadow drew you in," said Taris. "When the Eye of Divinity looked 
upon it, it bound you tightly in its web and would not let you go. You could have been 
lost to us forever in the phantom mists, but I managed to call you back by means of 
my sorcery. It was a risky gamble, but a necessary one. However, our foes made just 
as large of a gamble--and they lost."
Lannon shuddered. "I might never have come back?"
"It was a possibility," said Taris. "One does not escape the Deep Shadow's 
clutches easily. It takes an incredibly strong will to do so. But take heart, Lannon, in 
your accomplishments. You are alive, and the Goblin Puzzle is solved."
"We need to get word to Cordus at once," said Furlus, "so that he can send a 
messenger to our Knights. At last, we know how to kill the Goblin Lords!"
"How will the Knights do it?" said Lannon.
"The fire of sorcery," said Taris. "They will use their burning blades. It will be 
difficult, for the heart is obviously well protected on these creatures--but it is certainly 
possible now that we know exactly where to focus our attacks. The main difficulty 
will be seeing through the illusion and actually making contact with the creatures, but 
I feel that too can be accomplished. The upper hand will now be ours!"
"Let all Goblins fear!" said Furlus. "The tide is about to turn. We will avenge our 
fallen Knights and rid Silverland once and for all of the evil."
"Jerret Dragonsbane," said Taris. "You should go back to North Tower to tell 
Cordus what we've discovered."
"But we need him," said Vorden, "in case Lannon has to call out the Eye."
Taris smiled knowingly. "I think Lannon has gone a step beyond that. From now 
on, he'll only need two of you to help him with the task."
"What about me?" said Aldreya.
"You shall stay with us," said Taris. "And learn."
Jerret looked both disappointed and a bit relieved. "Okay, I'll go. I guess someone 
has to." With that, he departed, stepping around the Bloodfang's corpse with a 
shudder. He did not look back.
"It is not wise to send him alone," said Furlus. "The knowledge he bears is too 
important."
"I can trail him," said Shennen. "I will keep myself hidden. If any harm befalls 
Jerret, I will make sure Cordus gets the message. Also, if I do not return soon, you 
will know there has been trouble."
Furlus nodded. "Have at it, then. We will wait for you here."
Shennen slipped off into the shadows.
"What now?" said Lannon, glancing down the tunnel. "Shouldn't we go after the 
Goblin Lord before it gets away?"
Taris studied him piercingly. "Relax yourself, Lannon. You've just gone through 
a terrible experience. It is strange how quickly you seem to have recovered, and I 
don't trust what my eyes show me. Just try to stay calm and focused."
Lannon nodded, but he could not do as Taris asked. He was too excited over his 
accomplishment, and he wanted to take some sort of action.
"I feel fine," he said. 
"That is good to hear," said Taris, "but bear in mind that there are still some who 
would like to see you dead."
Taris' words had their intended effect. Lannon's excitement slipped away, and his 
gaze started searching the shadows of the tunnel. He stepped close to Taris, grateful 
for the sorcerers' presence. 
"When Shennen returns," said Furlus, "we will continue on. There are still 
questions that need answering, and our mission remains unchanged."
After a while, Shennen's lean, shadowy form suddenly stepped into the lantern 
light, startling the others. He regarded them with emotionless, glittering eyes. "The 
message has been delivered," he said quietly. "Young Jerret is fine." 
For a moment Taris gazed solemnly at the Blue Knight, as if searching for 
something hidden. Then the sorcerer nodded. "Let us move on, then."
No more enemies came out to greet them, and so they started along the tunnel. 
Unlike the passageway that led to the Divine Essence, no glowing crystals shone in 
these walls. This looked like, and had the feel of, the tunnels below Old Keep. The 
same musty smell was there, the lingering gloom hanging in the shadows. Now and 
then dark Iracus roots poked out of the stone. 
"This tunnel connects to the mines," said Furlus. "It is the only one that hasn't 
been permanently sealed off. It was left as an escape route, and now our assassin has 
made good use of it, apparently."
The tunnel sloped downward some and then leveled off. Pillars were hewn from 
the stone near the walls, lining the passageway. Rusted pieces of chain hung from 
some of the pillars, and Olrog bones lay scattered here and there. A skeleton, still 
partially intact, was chained to one of the pillars, its skull lying grinning at its feet.
Furlus paused for a moment and bowed his head, a troubled look on his face. "I 
am not proud of this sight," he said. "Olrog punishments can be all too harsh at times. 
These are the bones of miners who were chained here to die, probably for petty 
crimes. My people have a dark and glorious past, and like all the races, we've done 
our share of evil."
The others kept quiet, knowing it was best not to agree or disagree, lest they 
unwittingly provoke the Olrog's quick temper.
They went a little farther and discovered an iron door up ahead. The Knights 
checked the door and found it unlocked and not trapped. They pulled it open and 
stepped through into a short, wide hallway that ended at another iron door. At the 
center of the hallway was a wooden trapdoor with a brass ring at the center.
The Knights gathered before the trapdoor and examined it. Then Taris motioned 
Lannon forward and placed his hand on the boy's shoulder. "Very carefully," he said, 
"turn the Eye below this door. Once you learn what lies down there, do not linger."
Lannon did as he was told, slowly pushing the Eye down past the trapdoor and 
into the depths below. At first he glimpsed only cold stone leading down about twenty 
feet, but then a flood of dark images struck him. He saw ancient, sealed tombs, where 
the restless dead had lain hidden for centuries. He felt crushing strife, countered by 
fierce pride and determination--the will of the Olrogs. Something terrible had 
occurred below their feet, represented to Lannon by a creeping shadow that smothered 
all in its path. Some final battle had been fought amid the tombs below, and a curse 
laid forth upon that area. Yet something else existed down there as well--a shining 
scroll bearing some important knowledge that needed to be discovered.
Lannon wanted to probe the scroll further, but he remembered Taris' warning not 
to linger and drew away from it. Lannon pulled the Eye back to the surface and then 
partially within him. The others stared at him anxiously.
"It's a bad place," Lannon said. He hesitated, knowing if he told the Knights 
about the scroll, they would want to go below to retrieve it. But he had to tell them, 
for that item was very important somehow. "There is a scroll down there," he added. 
"Something that could be helpful."
"Then we need to go down there and get it," said Furlus.
"It's protected by something evil," said Lannon. "I don't know what it is, but it's 
very powerful." He realized he was breathing heavily and that his heart was aflutter. 
The fear was nearly too much to bear, and for an instant, he thought he was going to 
demand they head back to the surface and let Tenneth Bard escape.
But Lannon never got a chance to say anything. Furlus threw open the trapdoor 
and said, "So who’s going down there with me?" An iron ladder descended along the 
stone into the blackness.
Taris glanced about. "I am tempted to leave the Squires up here, but that could be 
just as dangerous, if not more so, considering what we've faced so far. We shall all go 
down, that I may keep the Squires near me and protect them. Also, Lannon must use 
his power to guide us to the scroll."
The ladder led them down twenty feet to another tunnel. Shennen went first, 
slipping quietly below to make sure all was well. After Shennen gave his signal, 
Caldrek went next, and then Furlus. The Squires were sent below after that, followed 
by Taris and Saranna. Darius was left above to guard the trapdoor opening. They 
knew the wolf would fight to the death before allowing an enemy to pass that way. 
When everyone had gathered below, they started along the tunnel. Almost 
immediately, a stone door was revealed, blocking their way. Strange writings were 
engraved in the door, beneath a symbol of a crimson battle axe. 
Furlus nodded. "As I suspected, the tombs of my ancestors lie beyond this door. 
That battle axe is the ancient symbol of my race. This is sacred ground and we must 
treat it as such. Take nothing and disturb nothing."
"We shall tread carefully here," said Taris. 
"What does the writing say?" asked Caldrek.
"It reflects my words," Furlus said. Then he read it aloud. "Within this chamber 
lie the sacred tombs of the honored dead. May the Axe of Tharnin smite whoever 
disturbs the peace of the dead, and scatter their blood before the altar of Graylius."
Furlus bowed his head. "Graylius was our god in olden times. He was believed to 
exist in the realm of Tharnin. As you may know, the Olrogs gained power from 
Tharnin long ago in our war against the Noracks and Birlotes."
"A pagan god, then," whispered Caldrek, shuddering. "Not fit to be worshiped." 
"Graylius was the God of the Forge," said Furlus. "He taught my ancestors 
wondrous knowledge. For that, we remain ever indebted to him. As for our dealings 
with Tharnin--we have paid for our mistakes."
"Graylius was a servant of Tharnin," said Taris. "A beast similar to the Great 
Dragons, yet more humanoid in form. There is some evidence to suggest that Graylius 
was not altogether evil, that he may have dwelt apart from his master. Which, if true, 
is indeed surprising, considering that Tharnin itself is believed to be purely evil. But 
the true workings of the Shadow Realm remain mostly a mystery. All of our 
knowledge comes from ancient and sketchy Olrog accounts and the sometimes vague 
and twisted insights of our own Dark Watchmen."
"Well, we can't stand around and chat," said Caldrek. "Not down in these 
wretched tunnels, anyway." With that, the Red Knight stepped forward and reached 
for the door handle.
Furlus grabbed his wrist, his eyes blazing. "You have much to learn about Olrogs, 
Caldrek. I will lead the way."
Caldrek pulled his hand back, raising his dark eyebrows. "Alright, then," he said 
calmly. "I guess you better do it."
"What if it's locked?" Timlin said anxiously, his meek voice sounding strange and 
forgotten in the stillness of the tunnel.
"I'll take care of that," said Furlus. "I'm not much for lock picking--which is work 
more suited to thieves and not a fit occupation for an Olrog--but I know Dwarven 
locks inside and out. If Shennen will pass me some tools, I'll get it open."
The Blue Knight handed his lock picks to Furlus. The Grey Dwarf mumbled 
something that sounded almost like a short prayer and then tried the door. It came 
open. "The lock has been broken," Furlus said, examining the other side of the door. 
"Something or someone of unnatural strength has passed this way, for Olrog locks are 
very stout." His grey eyes smoldered with rage, and he tossed the lock picks back to 
Shennen. "The peace of the dead has been disturbed."
Furlus shone his lantern through the doorway. Then he muttered a curse and 
stepped within. The others followed. Twelve rectangular stone coffins lay side by side 
in the chamber beyond, each one bearing the symbol of the crimson axe. The lids had 
been smashed or tossed aside, and bones and skulls now lay scattered here and there. 
A couple of the skulls had been smashed into pieces, as if from being stomped on by a 
heavy foot. If there had been any treasure in the coffins, it was undoubtedly missing. 
Tracks in the dust led around the room and then to another stone door.
"Who would dare commit such an outrage?" growled Furlus.
"It was done long ago," said Saranna. "For the dust lies undisturbed for the most 
part. Whoever recently came through here simply examined the coffins, and then 
exited the room. They did not commit this act of vandalism." 
"Lannon," said Taris, "I need you to search for the scroll again."
"It isn't in this room," said Lannon. He felt that it lay beyond the door--along with 
the creeping darkness. He pointed. "I think it's in there."
As they approached the door, Furlus motioned everyone to halt. He pointed to 
some yellow, odd-looking bones beside the door. A silver pike lay amid the bones. "A 
trap in the wall did that," he said. "Let me make sure it is disarmed."
Furlus poked at the wall on both sides of the chamber with a dagger, before 
grunting in satisfaction. "The trap has already been disarmed," he said. "And that, at 
least, is a good sign for us. It might mean any other traps--and I'll guarantee you these 
tombs will be full of them--are disarmed as well."
"But by whom or what?" said Taris.
No one had an answer.
The Grey Dwarf pulled open the door. Like the entrance door, this one bore a 
shattered lock. The lantern light revealed a much larger chamber, the edges of which 
were lost in darkness. The coffins in here were bigger and engraved with elaborate 
runes, and they were positioned around an altar at the center of the room. Barrels, 
crates, and rusted mining tools lay scattered everywhere, as well as bones strewn 
around from the coffins. It seemed that everything the Olrog miners had possessed 
had been dragged into this chamber. They had made their final stand amid their dead, 
protecting the tombs with their last breaths.
Stone steps led up to the altar, where stood a large statue of a horned, man-like 
beast holding a crimson battle axe. The beast's skin was scaly, and it had claws, a tail, 
and a fanged snout. Its body was massively muscled, and something in the way it 
stood spoke of a confidence and sturdiness of will that matched its physical might. 
Despite its savage appearance, its eyes were calm and wise, and it held its head high 
with pride.
"Graylius, our ancient god," whispered Furlus, nodding towards the statue. "The 
Olrogs of Grayforge Kingdom still worship him to this day, while all other Grey 
Dwarves have sought to sever any connection to Tharnin and the Deep Shadow."
"Lannon," whispered Taris, "locate the scroll and any dangers that might be 
lurking in the shadows close by."
Lannon hesitated, his throat tightening. He felt there was no way he could bear 
the burden of what the Eye would show him in this chamber. The glimpse from above 
had been bad enough, but now that he was right in it....
"What's wrong?" said Taris.
"I'm afraid," Lannon admitted, "of what I might see."
"I understand," said Taris. "And so what you must do is stay focused on your 
tasks. Ignore anything not related to the two objectives I have laid out for you. Do not 
let your curiosity dictate your will. You command the Eye. Bear that in mind."
Lannon nodded. Slowly he reached out with the Eye, commanding it to find the 
scroll. It instantly located it, on the other side of the altar. A dead body lay there as 
well, which Lannon did not examine. The Eye seemed to act on its own, seeking to 
read the scroll as if it were curious, but Lannon shifted it away, searching for any 
nearby danger. Frightful images sought to draw the Eye's attention, but Lannon did as 
Taris had instructed and ignored them, staying focused on his task. He discovered no 
dangers, but he knew something evil lurked down here. Somehow the thing was 
hiding from his gaze.
"The scroll is beyond the altar," Lannon whispered. "I didn't sense any danger, 
but I know something is down here. Something very powerful."
"You have done well," said Taris.
"Allow me to go," said Shennen. "I can sneak through the shadows and retrieve 
the scroll. The rest of you can stay and protect the Squires. I will move swiftly and 
silently, that we may exit this chamber without incident."
Taris nodded. "Good luck, my friend."
"Can I go with him?" Timlin said.
Everyone stared at Timlin in surprise. Furlus patted the boy on the shoulder, and 
nodded approvingly. The scrawny lad was clearly shaking from head to toe, but he 
held a determined look in his eyes. And he gazed at Shennen with deep admiration. 
"Timlin, are you crazy?" whispered Vorden. "I cannot figure you out!"
Shennen smiled. "I admire your courage, Timlin. But I must do this task alone. 
Your time will come. For now, wait and keep watch for danger."
With that, the Blue Knight vanished into the shadows.
Several moments passed, while the others waited impatiently, but still Shennen 
did not return. Furlus began to mumble under his breath. 
Several more moments went by, and then the Olrog muttered, "Shouldn't take this 
long to grab a scroll, now should it?"
"No, it should not," said Taris. "Yet we will wait a bit longer."
When, after another period of waiting, Shennen still did not show, Taris sighed. 
"Furlus, guard the Squires. I'm going to find out what became of Shennen."
"If anyone goes over there," said Furlus, "it should be me. You need to stay with 
Lannon and the other young ones."
"My power will be needed to defeat this foe," said Taris.
"Then we all go," said Furlus. "We can't turn back now and leave Shennen to his 
fate. I think we have made a mistake. We should have stayed on the trail of the 
assassin, and returned later--with more numbers--for the scroll."
"It is too late to dwell on that," said Taris. "Squires, huddle close to each other. 
Sneaking will not avail us here, for this enemy already knows of our presence." Taris 
made his stone dagger burn with a white-hot glow that extended beyond the lantern 
light, yet their enemy had many places to hide amid the coffins, crates, barrels, 
buckets, and mining equipment that filled the room. And the altar still blocked their 
vision. In the new light, another stone door was revealed. This one stood partially 
open.
As they cautiously moved around the altar, Furlus, who was in the lead, let out a 
gasp. "What in Tharnin is this evil?" he said.
Two human-shaped figures were encased in some slimy, green substance and 
stuck to the stone wall. Just the edge of a blue cloak was visible, poking out of the 
slime near one figure's feet. Neither figure was moving. Lying on the floor near them 
was a golden cylinder.
"Shennen!" cried Caldrek, his eyes narrowing. "What could have done this?" 
Caldrek raced over to the figure whose blue cloak was partially visible. He pulled 
away handfuls of slime that sought to stick to his skin. Meanwhile, Furlus swiped up 
the golden cylinder and stuck it in his backpack. 
Saranna rushed to Caldrek's side to help. They managed to free Shennen's face, 
but his eyes were closed and his head hung limp. He did not appear to be breathing. 
Timlin let out a snarl, his face twisting with disbelief and anger. He held forth his 
flayer, turning about, seeking the enemy.
Then a silent shadow rose up from amid some barrels, reaching a height of over 
ten feet--a monstrous bulk of furry green flesh and massive fangs. Long, thick legs 
reached out over the barrels, and a half squealing, half hissing noise erupted from the 
creature. Then it spit a big glob of slime at Taris.
The sorcerer burned through the slime with his dagger, and flung fire back at the 
creature, burning into its head. It screeched, but otherwise did not appear to be 
harmed. 
Lannon recognized the creature as a Goblin Worm, but his book The Truth about 
Goblins had insisted that such a creature was only a myth.
With a roar, Furlus charged the Worm, driving his axe at the creature's legs. But 
where the blade struck, it did minimal damage. It was like striking something made of 
tough rubber, and the blade seemed almost to bounce away from the monster's flesh, 
leaving it virtually unscathed. The creature had eight legs that were fastened to a long, 
slime covered body made of sections like a caterpillar. Its head was also worm-like, 
but had the multiple eyes of a spider. Its face was shockingly evil in appearance--
bearing features that seemed almost like those of a spiteful human female. It moved 
with astounding speed and agility.
The Worm spit slime into Furlus' face, blinding him, and the Grey Dwarf 
stumbled and fell. Two of the legs reached out and the beast quickly spun Furlus into 
a thick coating of slime, then lifted him and stuck him to the wall. The Dwarf had 
dropped his axe, but he continued to struggle beneath the slime.
Saranna leapt over and grabbed the Squires, holding them in a bunch to protect 
them and keep them from trying anything heroic. 
"We may have to flee," she whispered to them.
"Let me help the others!" Aldreya pleaded. But the Ranger only tightened her 
grip on the Squires.
Overcome with rage, Caldrek attacked the Worm with a flurry of blows. His 
sword burned with blue fire. A natural warrior of unsurpassed talent, he dodged globs 
of slime while seeking to find a weakness in the beast. But each stroke, no matter how 
sure, merely glanced away from the rubbery surface. 
"You'll pay for Shennen's life!" he grunted.
But the Worm apparently grew tired of this game, and used four of its legs to trap 
Caldrek. Then it buried its fangs into the Red Knight's shoulder, piercing his armor. 
Caldrek's mouth gaped open. He tried to say something, but the words were lost as his 
body went limp from the poison.
The Squires cried out in shock.
Taris struck the Worm with several blazing fireballs that burned into its flesh. 
The beast, obviously sensing danger, suddenly leapt up and clung to the ceiling in a 
move that was so quick the eye could not follow it. Seeking to escape or perhaps gain 
a better vantage point, it scuttled across the ceiling. But the hissing fireball caught up 
with it and exploded with a deafening roar that shook the chamber. Streaming jets of 
flame dropped to the floor and lay burning.
For an instant, they thought the Worm had been disintegrated. But then some 
barrels tipped over and the monster leapt out into the open, clumps of molten green 
fire falling from its body. It raced towards a dark hole in the stone wall. It screeched 
in rage at them, then crawled into the hole and was lost from sight.
With Saranna still guarding the dismayed Squires, Taris raced over to his trapped 
companions. Furlus had managed to free one of his arms, and he was pulling slime 
from his beard and sputtering in fury. Taris helped finish freeing him, and then set to 
work on Shennen. A moment later the Blue Knight lay on his back on the floor, 
released of his prison.
Shennen opened his eyes and started breathing, as if coming out of a deep trance. 
His face was grim. "It was too fast, too silent. I got caught off guard."
"Are you okay?" said Taris.
In answer, Shennen stood up.
Caldrek was not dead, either. The poison had left him weak, yet he was 
conscious. Shennen lifted him, while Furlus quickly freed the head of the remaining 
figure. They discovered it was a dead Jackal Goblin.
"Apparently," said Taris, as they fled the chamber, "that creature does not play 
favorites with other Goblins. All races are equal food in its eyes."
When they reached the surface and closed the trapdoor, Caldrek shifted about, 
and whispered, "That felt wretched. But I think it's starting to wear off. I should be 
able to move around soon enough."
"Perhaps we should take you back to Dremlock," said Furlus. "We haven't come 
that far."
"No!" Caldrek sputtered, coughing. "Just give me a moment. The poison 
obviously isn't deadly. At least I hope not."
"It's not supposed to be deadly," said Lannon. "According to my book The Truth 
about Goblins, that is. The poison was just meant to weaken you. Of course, that 
Worm wasn't supposed to exist, either."
Taris chuckled. "You must know every word of that book, Lannon. How many 
times have you read it?"
Caldrek stumbled to his feet. The Red Knight did not seem to have fully 
recovered, as he staggered a bit, but he insisted he was okay. "I can make it!" he 
insisted. "I'll be fine."
"We'll see," Furlus said. "If you're anything less than perfect, you go back. I'll not 
have your death on my conscience."
Caldrek nodded, then doubled over and went into a coughing fit. When he stood 
up, his eyes were watering, but he looked steadier.
Furlus unscrewed one end of the cylinder and read the scroll aloud:
Master, 
This message is extremely urgent. A lad named Lannon Sunshield has come to 
Dremlock, and apparently he bears the rare power known as the Eye of Divinity, 
which could eventually be a threat to our plans. It would be difficult to have him cast 
out, and even if we were able to, he could remain an outside threat. And so we have 
opted for the easier and more sturdy route. We shall have one of our servants kill 
Lannon. Don't worry, Master, the boy shall meet his end one way or another. I have 
trusted this letter to Creglin, so that he may get it to you with all speed. However, you 
need do nothing. I have the matter well in hand. Lannon Sunshield will die!
Your Loyal Servant
"There you have it!" growled Furlus. "The evidence we sought! Justice shall 
come of this, my friends."
"And yet it fails to mention Kealin or Moten," said Taris.
"It is Moten's writing," said Furlus. "I can tell Olrog handwriting, and Moten has 
a very unique style. And we can have this examined by a Scribe and a comparison 
made. Moten shall be found guilty. I have no doubt of it. We may find evidence down 
here against Kealin too."
"Hopefully not as well guarded," said Shennen. "How could that scroll have 
ended up down there?"
"The Jackal must have taken a wrong turn or something," said Taris. "Regardless, 
it is very fortunate for us that it met its doom. Now at least one corrupt member of the 
High Council will earn his rightful place in Dremlock Dungeon."
"I want to go confront him myself," said Furlus. "But first we need to finish our 
mission down here. Yet I can hardly wait to face him! And though he will 
undoubtedly spend his years in the dungeon, being treated humanely, I have a better 
punishment in mind."
"And what is that?" said Taris.
"We should toss him down there," said Furlus, nodding to the trapdoor. "Let one 
fiend prey upon another. That would be true justice."
Taris frowned. "And yet you should bear in mind how your people once 
administered punishments like that."
Furlus sighed and nodded. "It is true. But nevertheless, if anyone deserves to be 
fed to an oversized Worm, it is Moten."
"The Worm..." Taris pondered. "That was a creature of extraordinary power, and 
I hope never to encounter it again."
"It may have been leftover from the Great War," said Furlus. "It probably fled 
into these mines to escape Olzet Ka and the Crimson Flamestone."
"As for that scroll," said Taris, "perhaps we should take it to Cordus before we 
continue on. If we meet a bad end down here, the scroll might vanish with us, and 
justice would not be served."
Furlus put the scroll back in its case and stowed it away in his backpack. "Like I 
said, I want to confront Moten myself. And we can afford no more delays. The Goblin 
Lord and the assassin are escaping even as we speak."
Taris said nothing, seeing the determined look on Furlus' face and perhaps 
knowing it was useless to argue with a stubborn Dwarf.
Chapter 17:  Into the Depths
They cautiously proceeded past the iron door and along another tunnel. It turned 
a corner and began to slope downward, and they soon encountered a tangle of black 
roots that had been chopped through. The roots grew out of cracks in the stone walls, 
and ceiling, and the tunnel floor was stained dark with blood from them.
"The Iracus roots grow thick here," said Furlus. "There is a huge den of Black 
Mothers down this way. The Mothers have been sealed off, but their roots still creep 
all over through the stone, splitting it and sometimes causing cave-ins."
"You know this area?" said Taris, in amazement.
"Of course I do," said Furlus. "I've never been here in person, but there are stacks 
of old books down by the Deep Forge, some of which have these areas mapped out in 
great detail. I've studied them thoroughly."
"Yet haven't you claimed on many occasions," mused Taris, "that I spend too 
much time with my books?"
Furlus ignored this, and concentrated on leading the company down the long, 
sloping course. Eventually it leveled off and they emerged into a round chamber. At 
the center of the room was the opening of a mineshaft, about fifteen-feet wide, with 
old wooden planks partially covering it. Lying off to one side were old mining tools, 
piles of rotten rope, buckets, and some sort of badly rusted device that stood about 
nine feet tall and displayed many gears, levers, and wheels, with piles of thick chain at 
the foot of it. Furlus gazed at that last device with pride shining in his grey eyes.
"What is that thing?" said Taris.
"It was called a God Arm," said Furlus. "It helped pull Glaetherin ore up the 
mineshaft. It could drag tons of it up with no difficulty. If that doesn't represent Olrog 
ingenuity, I don't know what does."
Taris nodded. "The Olrogs are amazing inventors."
Furlus went to the edge of the shaft and knelt, holding his lantern over the hole. 
"It looks like someone carved a ladder right into the stone, but we'll use our ropes just 
to be on the safe side. Now, who wants to get lowered down first?"
Caldrek stepped forward. Furlus tied his rope around Caldrek and lowered him 
over the edge. Shennen and Saranna held the rope's end, adding extra support, while 
the wolf stayed alert to danger. Caldrek said nothing as he was being lowered. But at 
last the rope went slack, and his whisper arose from the pit.
"As far as I can tell, it's safe to come down."
"How deep is it?" Furlus asked.
"At least forty feet," said Caldrek. "But that is merely a crude guess. Regardless, 
a fall could be fatal, so be careful!"
"I better go next," said Furlus, "since I'm the heaviest and it will probably take all 
of you to lower me down."
One by one the others (including Darius) were lowered in, until all of them 
except Shennen stood on the stone floor below. They were in a large chamber with a 
low ceiling, its walls hidden in shadow beyond their lantern light.  From where the 
mineshaft (and the stone ladder) ended eight feet above them, an iron ladder hung 
down to the floor.
Aldreya glanced upward. "What about Shennen?"
"Stand aside," came Shennen's whisper. "I'm climbing down. I don't want anyone 
under me in case I slip."
Moments later, Shennen's lean form descended into the light. He was moving 
swiftly down the rope. When he reached the chamber floor, he readied his weapon. 
Shennen had fastened the rope to something above, and it continued to hang down, 
offering a second means of climbing up in case a swift escape was needed.
Shennen nodded. "Let the wolf lead the way."
"Darius is already on it," said Saranna, pointing to where the wolf was crouched 
at the edge of the lantern light, his nose pressed to the floor. 
They followed Darius, passing huge mining carts and buckets, piles of ore that 
glittered silver, and heaps of rusted pickaxes. The gloom hung thick in the air here, 
the feeling of doom and despair and of being closed in. They could feel the countless 
tons of rock bearing down on them, and they could only imagine what the miners 
must have dealt with spending endless days and nights in this place. Yet the miners 
had been Olrogs, stout of heart like Furlus. They had chosen to devote their lives to 
the mines, and in grim proof of that, Olrog bones and skulls were strewn here and 
there.
Furlus bowed his head in respect. "They fought to the last to defend what was 
theirs," he said. "But the Deep Shadow was too strong."
Suddenly Timlin stopped. He was breathing heavily, his eyes darting into the 
shadows. He avoided looking at the others.
"What's wrong, Timlin?" said Lannon.
"I'm afraid," Timlin said, his face reddening. "This reminds me of the last time 
we were down here. I don't want to go any farther."
"Timlin!" Vorden sighed disgustedly. "What's the matter with you? We have 
Knights with us this time, and a Ranger. It's not like before, when it was just us. Now 
quit being such a weakling and get moving."
Aldreya shook her head in confusion. "Look at what we just went through down 
in those tombs. You were brave enough then. I can't understand you, Timlin."
"It's different now," Timlin whispered. "We're closer to..." He closed his mouth, 
and shook his head.
Shennen placed his hand on Timlin's shoulder. "Fear is not always a bad thing. It 
can help keep you alert. But it is important to stay focused. Do you really want to go 
back, and leave Lannon with no means to summon his Eye of Divinity?"
Timlin shook his head. "I just feel afraid."
"We will protect you," said Shennen.
"If you can," said Timlin, looking at the floor.
"The boy has a point," said Furlus. "We may not be able to protect him. In fact, 
that Worm was nearly too much for us, and that certainly might not be the worst 
creature lurking in the mines. He could die down here."
"Furlus, what are you trying to do?" said Caldrek, raising his eyebrows. "We 
should be trying to comfort the lad."
"I'm just being truthful," said Furlus. "If he goes any farther, he could be killed. 
After all, we don't know what's down here. So if you want to turn back, Timlin, you 
can, and the rest of us will too. And then we won't know what's in these mines, or 
whether Dremlock could be attacked from below. The choice is yours. Furlus 
Goblincrusher is no slave driver. If you want to go back, say so now."
Timlin was quiet for a moment. Then he whispered, "I'll keep going, I guess. I 
don't want to ruin things for everyone."
Saranna stepped next to Timlin and smiled at him. "I'll stay close to you, Timlin. 
If anything attacks us, we'll face it together."
"Don't worry about me," said Timlin. "I just don't like the mines, because they 
remind me of something."
"What do they remind you of?" Saranna asked, touching his shoulder. Timlin 
flinched away from her.
Timlin's voice grew bitter. "Never mind. Just something that happened once 
when I was younger. It's not important." He held up his flayer, a gleam in his eyes. 
"But I feel better now, and I'm ready to find that Tenneth Bard fellow. He tried to kill 
Lannon, and he needs to pay. So let's get going."
Saranna gazed at Timlin with uncertainty. She seemed about to ask him 
something more, but Timlin had already started forward, a small and silent shadow, 
his flayer held ready. 
Lannon watched Saranna, impressed with her kindness and courage (and even 
more impressed with her beauty). Despite his fears, and his need to stay alert, he 
found himself glancing her way more often than he should have.
After a time, the chamber floor became covered in silver dust, and they could 
make out boot prints in it. The tracks led them into a tunnel blocked by an iron door 
that was locked. The Knights studied the lock, and came to the conclusion that 
Lannon would have to use the Eye. But Timlin begged to be allowed to try picking it, 
and so he was given a set of tools.
"Give it a quick try," said Furlus. "But this lock is very stout."
"You can do this, Timlin," said Shennen. "If you stay focused and let nothing 
distract your mind, the lock will succumb to your will."
Timlin went to work, his tiny fingers moving skillfully, his face set in a 
determined look. Just when the others were beginning to grow impatient, a click 
arose. Timlin backed away, grinning. "I got it!" he said.
"Well done," said Shennen, patting him on the back. "Amazing, really. I myself 
would have struggled with it. Your Knightly essence must be very strong. And those 
tiny, quick fingers you have are a bonus."
The Squires were instructed to stand behind the four men, with Saranna and 
Darius guarding the rear. While Taris and Furlus readied their weapons, Caldrek 
yanked the door open--to reveal a short hallway that ended at another door. The floor 
of this hallway was strewn with loose boards and rusty spikes.
Caldrek and Taris started forward, but Furlus ordered them to stop. "Hold on, 
now. Don't be wandering off without knowing what you're getting into."
"What's wrong?" said Taris.
Furlus pointed to the debris in the passageway. "Doesn't that look a little out of 
place to you?"
"It looks like loose boards and spikes," said Taris. "There is a lot of debris down 
here. What's different about this?"
Caldrek shook his head. "Even I cannot glimpse what Furlus sees."
"I see it," said Shennen. "Those boards may have been put there deliberately. 
They look a bit too randomly placed. See how none of them overlap? This could be a 
trap of some sort."
Furlus held forth a lantern, studying the tunnel. "The walls and ceiling look okay. 
The trap, if it exists, must be under the boards themselves." He frowned. "I guess I'll 
go first. You others wait for me. I have a suspicion..."
The Olrog carefully stepped along the tunnel, avoiding the loose boards. When he 
drew close to two of them lying side by side, near the tunnel's end, he sat his lantern 
down and raised his axe. The others could hear his raspy breathing as he cautiously 
stepped towards the two planks.
Then the planks exploded into the air and a dark, serpent-like shape surged out of 
a hole in the stone floor. The others caught a glimpse of a humanoid head, its reddish 
mouth split wide to reveal dripping fangs. Yet the instant that head popped up from 
the hole, Furlus' swung his axe and severed it from its body. The head rolled away, 
while the body writhed about, oozing dark fluid, until it lay still.
Furlus tore a piece off his clothing and cleaned his axe with it. "Alright," he said, 
wiping sweat from his brow. "It's safe now."
Exchanging glances, the others started forward. When they reached the edge of 
the hole, they could see that the Pit Crawler had been chained down there, leaving just 
enough slack so it could rise up and bite anyone it smelled approaching its lair. 
Animal bones (and human ones) lay in the pit, gnawed clean of flesh--food to insure 
the creature's poison stayed potent.
"Whoever set these traps," said Furlus, "wields some kind of power over Goblins. 
Otherwise his own snares would doom him. And he must be thoroughly evil to use a 
Pit Crawler to do his dirty work."
"I think we'd already guessed he's evil," said Taris
Lannon glanced at the severed head. It bore a human expression, its eyes widened 
in shock. He turned away, wishing he hadn't looked.
They examined the door at the tunnel's end. It was made of iron, had a lock 
similar to the one Timlin had just picked, and runes were engraved in it. Taris studied 
the runes, while Furlus examined the lock.
"Writings of the Deep Shadow," Taris concluded.
"But what does it mean?" said Furlus.
Taris shook his head. "Only a sorcerer who gains his power from Tharnin could 
perhaps understand this."
With Shennen's encouragement, Timlin eagerly set to work and soon had the 
door unlocked. Taris pulled it open, and another hallway was revealed, ending this 
time in a lighted chamber up ahead. 
They crept forward with extra caution, Taris and Furlus in the lead. Soon they 
emerged into a round chamber lit by Birlote torches. Another tunnel mouth stood on 
the opposite side of this room. Wooden tables and chairs stood in the chamber, and 
shelves lined the walls. Jugs and bottles, some broken and some intact, sat upon the 
shelves, along with other items such as candles, writing utensils, books, and so forth. 
Also, on one of the tables lay a Goblin Lord's corpse. It was chained down, and it had 
been sliced open to reveal the innards of its chest and stomach. Its eyes were open 
wide in death.
"Well, look at that!" said Furlus. 
Taris examined the Goblin. "It looks like surgery of some sort was performed 
here. Do you see that cavity in the lower back? It appears the Goblin Lord's heart has 
been removed."
"Could this be where the Goblin Lords are created?" said Furlus.
"Not likely," said Taris. "This is a small room for such a grand accomplishment 
as creating Goblin Lords. This chamber probably served another purpose. But what is 
the meaning of this? Why is the heart missing? And look--there is fresh blood on the 
table, which means this was done recently."
"Perhaps this Goblin Lord was punished," said Furlus. "Look at the face and 
head--those black runes. This could easily be the one that escaped us earlier."
"Yes," said Taris. "I think it is. He must have been punished for his failure to 
destroy Lannon."
"He was simply spared my axe!" growled Furlus.
"I want to take a moment," said Taris, "to examine the contents of some of these 
jugs and bottles."
"We have no time for this, sorcerer," said Furlus. "While you poke your nose in 
those bottles, the assassin could be escaping us."
"Very well!" muttered Taris. "I'll check them later."
But Shennen ignored both of them, and uncorked a couple of the containers to 
sniff at them. He brought one to Taris, and let the Birlote sniff it.
Taris wrinkled his nose in disgust. "This is water tainted by the Deep Shadow. It 
is found in pools north of these mountains--in that place called the Desolation. It has 
been known to cause bizarre mutations among those who drink it. It can even mutate 
plants, from what I've learned, causing them to behave like animals."
"So what does this mean?" said Furlus.
"It could play a role in the creation of these Goblin Lords," said Taris. "But I 
suppose we are just grasping at straws here. We need to find the actual place where 
the Goblin Lords are created, before we can know what is really going on."
"Regardless," said Furlus, "one thing seems certain. These tunnels are soon to be 
used as an attack route. Otherwise, why would this be down here?"
"I agree that it is likely," said Taris.
"This is strong evidence," said Caldrek. "Shouldn't we send someone back to 
report it, while the rest of us search for the assassin?"
Taris was thoughtful for a moment. At last he said, "Who should be sent back? 
We have need of everyone, it seems. I suggest we go a bit farther and poke around a 
little more, before we have Cordus commit any Knights to these mines. This could be 
a mere diversion, while the true attack takes place above."
"Then let's get moving," said Furlus.
The company entered the tunnel, which led them a short distance before giving 
way to a round chasm spanned by a stone bridge. At its center, the bridge widened out 
briefly and displayed what appeared to be a pool of water. On the other side, another 
tunnel mouth could just barely be seen in the flickering light. The sound of rushing 
water came from the depths of the chasm below.
Furlus waved a lantern over the bridge. "Looks sturdy enough. But that's an odd 
place for a pool of water--in the middle of a bridge. We better go on ahead and check 
it out. Squires, you stay here. Saranna, you and your wolf stay with them and guard 
the rear." 
The four Knights walked halfway across the bridge to the pool and gathered 
around it. The water was green and slimy looking.
"What do you make of this?" said Taris.
Furlus shook his head. "My knowledge of this area isn't good. I don't remember 
reading about any bridge over a chasm, or a water pool, but I do know there's a big 
river that flows through the mines. That could be the river down in the chasm."
Caldrek shrugged. "This pool looks harmless."
Shennen knelt by it. "Perhaps, but there is something more."
"It could be another trap," said Taris.
 Even as he spoke, a dark arm arose from the pool, vine-like and dripping with 
algae, displaying a hand with ten fingers. The fingers, which had little green sprouts 
on the ends of them, wiggled about for a moment, while the others gazed on as if 
hypnotized. Then, with blinding speed, the hand swatted Caldrek off the bridge. It 
struck him with such force that his breastplate split. Only his startled cry was left to 
mark his passing, as he plunged into the blackness below. A moment later a splash 
could be heard.
The others stared in shock, trying to gather their wits. Then Furlus dropped his 
lantern and swung his axe at the arm, but it was like chopping into a twisted root. The 
axe did little damage to the wood-like flesh, and the arm shot out and coiled about 
Furlus, lifting him into the air and striving to crush the life from him. His axe clattered 
to the stone, just on the pool's edge where flaming oil from his fallen lantern lay 
burning.
Then another arm rose from the pool, and this one batted Taris towards the 
chasm. He caught hold of the edge of the bridge as he went over and hung there, 
while the shovel-sized hand groped for him, its fingers wiggling and probing. He 
struggled fiercely to avoid the hand and pull himself up. 
Shennen leapt over to help him, but the hand lurched over and bumped the Blue 
Knight's leg. Shennen fought for balance and then the hand bumped him again from 
behind. He toppled forward off the bridge. With spectacular agility, he twisted about 
and grabbed for the edge, but his hands fell just short of their goal, his fingertips 
scraping the stone. He fell silently into the chasm.
"Stay here!" Saranna ordered the Squires. She and Darius bounded out onto the 
bridge. When she reached Taris, she hacked at the arm that was threatening him, but 
her saber could not sever it. The hand batted at her several times, but each time, 
despite its terrible swiftness, she somehow managed to dodge it, continuing to hack 
away. Finally she was able to sever it and the arm slipped back into the water.
Saranna looked to Furlus. The Olrog was being squeezed viciously, but he was 
holding his own, his muscles bulging from the strain. His face was deep crimson, his 
eyes crazed with fury.
She turned to Taris and knelt, extending her hand.
"Watch your back!" Taris cried, but it was too late. 
Another hand shot out of the pool and swatted Saranna's backside, knocking her 
headfirst into Taris and sending them both tumbling into the darkness.
With a snarl, Darius bit at the hand, but it managed to get a hold of him. It lifted 
the wolf into the air and tossed him from the bridge.
"We have to help them!" exclaimed Aldreya, starting forward. Her stone dagger 
began to burn with the green fire.
"Stay back!" Furlus bellowed at the Squires.
Aldreya paused, a desperate look in her eyes. 
Vorden grabbed her shoulder. "We can't fight that thing!"
With a grunt, Furlus suddenly snapped the arm that held him in two, and the 
Olrog dropped into the pool. He grabbed the edge and hauled himself out, retrieving 
his axe. He drove it against the remaining arm and somehow lopped through it in one 
fierce stroke. The waters went still for a moment. He held his axe ready.
"Get away from there," Aldreya cried to him.
But Furlus would not retreat. He held his ground, his face twisted in a grimace of 
rage over what had happened to his companions.
Then a huge hand shot out of the slimy water--twice as large as the others. It 
seized Furlus before he could react. It lifted the Olrog high into the air, shook him 
furiously, and then flung him into the chasm.
The huge hand then wiggled its fingers before sinking below the surface of the 
pool again. Everything went deathly still, save for rushing of water deep in the chasm 
below. The Squires glanced at each other, pale and horrified. 
But they had little time to mourn, for they suddenly heard something approaching 
from behind.  They could hear groans and heavy, dragging footsteps. There was a 
sound like something metallic scraping the stone. 
Chapter 18:  The Black Knight
As the Squires watched, a huge form dragged itself into the lantern light. It was a 
Cave Troll--but certainly not one that was full of vigor. Its grey flesh was wrinkled 
and cracked with age, its face was mapped with countless lines, and long white hair 
grew on its body. It was somewhat thin, with its ribs standing out under its withered 
skin. In one hand it carried a dark sword, holding it by the blade. One of its feet had 
somehow become lodged in a metal bucket, and unable to free the foot, the Troll 
simply dragged the bucket along with it. It was a bizarre and pathetic sight.
The Troll caught sight of them and snarled, showing only a few remaining teeth. 
It raised the sword handle up high like a club.
"What should we do?" cried Lannon, glancing first at the Troll and then at the 
bridge where the dark pool stood. The Troll blocked their path back.
"Run for it," said Vorden. "We can make it."
"But those big hands!" cried Timlin, pointing at the pool. "What if they come out 
and grab us?"
Aldreya glanced back and forth from the Troll to the bridge, her burning dagger 
held out at arm's length. "We can't beat a Troll," she said.
"But the hands!" Timlin insisted.
"They won't catch us," said Vorden. "Now come on. All at once!"
As the Troll drew close, the Squires raced across the bridge. They tried to run as 
swiftly and silently as they could. Somehow, they made it around the pool and to the 
other side of the bridge without provoking the hands in the water. They stood panting, 
watching in fascination as the Troll staggered slowly after them.
When the Troll reached the pool and started around it (making its thumping, 
scraping racket in the process), the remaining giant hand groped up out of the water, 
wiggled its fingers, and swatted the Troll. The Troll stumbled backwards, the sword 
falling from its fist and clattering to the stone. Snarling, the Troll tried to grab for the 
wiggling hand, but it swatted the Troll again and this time knocked it off the bridge. A 
big splash arose from below. The hand then slipped back beneath the pool.
The Squires breathed sighs of relief.
"Come on," said Lannon. "Let's see if we can find the others."
"What if they're dead?" said Timlin. "What will we do?"
"Taris..." whispered Aldreya. "He can't be dead."
Lannon nodded in agreement. "They can't all be finished. I just can't imagine it." 
It was just too horrible for Lannon to accept. A repeating image ran through his mind 
of them being flung into the chasm. It had happened so swiftly and shockingly.
"I'd like to fix those hands," muttered Vorden, "after what they did."
"Don't go near the pool, Vorden" said Aldreya. "Or you might end up going over, 
too. If the Knights couldn't beat that monster, we definitely cannot."
Vorden's gaze fell on the black sword that lay by the pool. "Look at that sword! 
I've never seen anything like it. I'm going after it."
"Don't go, Vorden!" cried Timlin. "You don't even use a sword."
"Just leave it," said Aldreya. "What's wrong with you? The others need our help, 
and all you can think of is yourself."
Vorden glared at her. "Whatever you think, Aldreya, doesn't concern me, so just 
shut your mouth. That sword could come in handy."
"You're so incredibly selfish!" she said. "I've never met anyone so self-centered 
as you in my entire life."
She grabbed his arm. "We're going to help the others."
Vorden shoved her away. "Don't touch me."  
Her green eyes burning with anger, Aldreya raised her stone dagger. "I can stop 
you from going out there, if I want to."
Vorden turned away, ignoring her. He handed his lantern to Lannon and started 
back across the bridge, his axe held ready.
"Vorden!" Aldreya whispered pleadingly. "Come back here."
While the others watched with pounding hearts, Vorden crept to the edge of the 
pool and laid hands on the sword hilt. He lifted the weapon silently off the stone, 
grinning, and held it up for the others to see.
Then he rose and started back. As he did so, the great hand reached forth and 
hovered menacingly above him.  
"Watch out!" the others cried.
Yet even as the hand grabbed for Vorden, the black sword slashed around in an 
arc and sliced through the tree-trunk sized arm. The hand dropped to the bridge, its 
fingers still wiggling--like a giant insect lying on its back.
Vorden ran to where the others stood, his eyes blazing in triumph. "There," he 
said. "I got the sword, and killed the hand."
Lannon nodded. "Let's just hope that's the last hand."
Timlin's eyes were wide with awe. "That sword must be pretty sharp to cut 
through that thing so easily."
Vorden examined it. It was a straight, double-edged sword of black hue with a 
hilt that displayed four silver claw-like protrusions on either side. At the center of the 
hilt was a silver symbol that looked vaguely like a spider, while smaller runes of equal 
color ran the length of the blade.
"It must be," he agreed. "It kind of felt like..."
"Like what?" said Lannon.
"Like the sword moved on its own," said Vorden.
Aldreya shuddered. "Maybe you shouldn't keep it."
"What are you talking about?" said Vorden. "Of course I'm going to keep it. And 
you better not tell anyone I found it!"
"But it might be cursed," said Aldreya. "Just be careful, okay?"
"I will," said Vorden. "But it's a good weapon, and right now we need one, since 
we're on our own. I'll just leave my axe here for now."
"We could go back now and get help," said Aldreya.
Even as she spoke, the pool began to boil. Something was twisting around in the 
water, perhaps in agony.
"I think it's dying," said Lannon.
"Or healing itself," said Vorden. "Who knows? I'd like to keep going and see if 
we can locate the others. You could use the Eye of Divinity to help find them. Maybe 
when we come back later, that thing will be dead."
Lannon nodded. "I don't really want to go past it right now. And the others might 
need our help right away."
"Let's find our friends," said Timlin. "We can't leave them behind." 
***
In the chasm below the bridge, much farther down from where they had first 
fallen in--though it was impossible to tell exactly how far--Caldrek, Shennen, Taris, 
Saranna, and Darius dragged themselves out of the water and lay dripping on the 
riverbank. In the utter darkness of the chasm, they were forced to call out each other's 
names. Only Furlus failed to answer the call. Taris pulled a Birlote torch from his 
pack, and the crimson light revealed the swiftly flowing river, from which pointed 
rocks protruded. 
As they watched in tense silence, a thick hand suddenly reached up out of the 
water and grabbed one of the rocks. Then another hand came up, and Furlus 
Goblincrusher pulled himself above the surface, gasping for breath. He hung there, in 
the middle of the river, his chest heaving beneath his plate mail.
"Don't just gawk at me," he muttered to the others. "Help me out. I can't fight the 
current anymore. This armor is too heavy."
"Can you remove your armor?" said Taris.
Furlus shook his head. "Not while I'm hanging from this rock."
Suddenly, a big shape drifted past in the torchlight. It was an old Cave Troll. 
Oddly enough, it was almost in a standing position, as if something were weighing 
down its feet. It bobbed along down the river, its round eyes gazing at them, and 
disappeared into the dark.
"Did you see that?" said Saranna. "It looked like a Troll!"
No one answered. They just shrugged and shook their heads.
"Was that a Cave Troll that just floated past?" Saranna asked again, her eyes wide 
in disbelief. "Or am I seeing things?"
Shennen readied his rope. "Tie this around yourself, if you can, Furlus, and we 
will pull you onto the bank."
"If I let go of this rock," said Furlus, "I'll sink like lead."
"I guess I can swim out and tie it around you," said Taris. "If I must..."
"I'd rather drown," said Furlus.
"I can do it," said Saranna.
"Hurry now!" said Furlus. "I'm losing my grip."
Shennen handed Saranna one end of the rope, and she dove into the river a bit 
upstream from where Furlus was. The current pulled her along, but she managed to 
fight her way over to the struggling Dwarf. 
"If you weren't so thick in the belly," mocked Taris, "she might actually be able 
to get that rope around your waist."
Furlus was clinging to the rock with his last bit of strength, but he managed to 
grunt out a response. "When I get...to shore...watch out...sorcerer!"
"It's done," said Saranna. "You can pull us in."
Shennen, Caldrek, and Taris tugged on the rope. "You can let go now," said 
Taris, "unless you want us to try to pull that rock along with you."
Furlus let his hands slip from the rock, while Saranna held onto him and the rope. 
The others dragged them up onto land.  Furlus lay coughing and hacking. Then he sat 
up, his beard dripping, still panting from his exertion.
"Let us hope the Squires returned to Dremlock," sputtered Furlus.
"I doubt they did," said Taris, shaking his head.
Furlus looked surprised. "What makes you say that? Do you actually think they 
would try to continue on without us?"
"Perhaps," said Taris. "They might try to find us, believing we need their help. 
And that Vorden fellow... Well, let's just say that I understand his nature."
"They would be fools to try to cross that bridge," said Saranna, wringing out her 
hair, "after what happened to us."
"Could Squires possess such courage?" said Caldrek.
"Why not?" said Shennen. "When we were young, Caldrek, we might easily have 
tried it. When it comes down to it, age has less to do with courage than people might 
think, my friend."
"I think Taris has a good point, for once," said Furlus. "Look at what those 
Squires have done already--sneaking down to visit the Divine Essence."
"Where Vorden goes," said Taris, "trouble shall follow."
***
In full agreement to continue on, the Squires entered the tunnel. It led them 
downward at a steep incline and then leveled off. Stone pillars lined the passageway 
here, grey and smooth in the lantern light, hewn from the mountain's rock. Hanging 
from the pillars were rusted chains. Still caught in some of these chains was evidence 
of their grim purpose--a skeletal arm here, a thighbone there. Skulls and other bones 
lay scattered at the base of the pillars. This was another Olrog punishment hall. The 
Squires wondered how many such grisly places existed down here.
They left the pillars behind and journeyed for what seemed like hours along the 
stone passageway, occasionally encountering thick black roots that split the rock here 
and there (having caused small cave-ins in some areas). 
The tunnel gradually began to widen, revealing even more roots, and they had to 
push their way through fierce tangles of them at times. The gloomy feeling thickened, 
smothering them, while a sickening stench--reminding Lannon of the Bloodlands--had 
begun to assail their nostrils. Despair built in their hearts.
"Maybe we should go back," said Lannon.
"Let's go just a little farther," said Vorden. 
"I think the others are dead," said Timlin, shivering.
"I feel that way now, too," said Aldreya. 
"It has something to do with this area," said Vorden. "It's like the Bloodlands, 
making us feel as if things are hopeless."
"I feel like everything is crazy," said Aldreya "What are we doing here? What's 
happening to Dremlock? I never thought it would be this way."
"I didn't either," said Lannon. "It seems like ever since we snuck into Old Keep, 
things have gotten strange. Now someone wants me dead."
"I know what you mean," said Vorden, stopping and turning to them. "I always 
imagined the life of a Squire would be somewhat exciting--but nothing like this. I 
wanted adventure, but not necessarily this much, this soon."
"When I first came to Dremlock," said Aldreya, "I had no idea things were this 
bad here. I grew up in Borenthia, the great Birlote tree city to the west, and all my life 
all I ever heard was how wonderful Dremlock was. I dreamt of being a Knight from 
the time I was a little girl." She giggled, and then sighed. "I finally got my wish, for 
my parents had it planned for me all along. It is a tradition among my family."
Aldreya bowed her head. "I've worked really hard, but lately I've been starting to 
wonder what it's all worth. Is Dremlock just going to fall apart soon? I miss Borenthia 
very much, and lately Dremlock leaves me feeling empty inside."
The others had nothing to say. They wondered the same thing. Would all their 
training end up being for nothing, if the Goblins prevailed?
Vorden put his hand on Aldreya's shoulder. "It's not really that bad. Somehow, 
the Divine Essence will make things right. I know it will."
Aldreya blushed. "I hope so."
They started off again. Soon afterward, the tunnel narrowed into a crawl space. 
The rocks bruised their knees. This didn't last long, and they soon emerged onto a 
ledge. They stood up, choking on the foul stench, striving to see beyond the lantern 
light. The ledge was narrow, and a sheer cliff dropped away into the darkness, spider-
webbed with black Iracus roots. Down below they could hear hideous sucking and 
feasting noises, along with swaying and creaking sounds, and an occasional hiss or 
screech that sounded like Goblins.
Timlin huddled close to Vorden and Lannon.
"What's down there?" whispered Lannon.
"Probably Iracus Trees," said Vorden. "Look at all those roots on the side of the 
cliff. There must be a lot of those trees down there!"
Suddenly it dawned on Lannon. "That must be the Mother Nest that Furlus 
mentioned. The Goblins must be feeding. Who knows how many are down there? 
Vorden, let's get out of here now!"
"Let's just see where this ledge leads," Vorden said. "Then we'll turn back."
"Not this again!" whispered Lannon. Grim memories of Old Keep flooded back, 
and he silently cursed Vorden. Why did Vorden have to be like this? 
"Turn back!" Timlin begged.
"Vorden--you are not putting me through this again," said Aldreya. "This time, 
we will just leave you behind. I swear we will."
But onward Vorden went, ignoring their pleas. Unwilling to abandon him at this 
point, the others followed. The ledge ended at another tunnel.
"Come on," he said. " I think I hear water."
They listened carefully, faintly hearing what sounded like a river up ahead. Yet it 
was hard to tell from this distance exactly what the noise was.
"Let's see if the others are by that river," said Vorden. "When we get close 
enough, you can use the Eye to help find them."
"I guess we can go a little farther," said Lannon, "now that we're past those Iracus 
Trees. But I'm starting to feel wretched." 
"I feel so bad inside," said Aldreya, "and that smell..."
They could walk upright in the next tunnel, and it led them along for a short 
distance and then into a large chamber. They walked around the edge of this room and 
saw many tunnels, all of which looked the same.
Finally Vorden paused, fear in his eyes. For several moments no one said a word, 
while Lannon, Timlin, and Aldreya waited in dread for him to tell them what was 
wrong. Finally he said, "I made a big mistake. I'm not sure which tunnel is the one we 
came in here through. Have any of you kept count?"
They shook their heads.
"It looks like we'll have to go back and try them all," said Vorden. "I have no idea 
which way we should go, and the river sounds like it's coming from all around us 
now, only still far away. This isn't going to work. I've come to realize we need to go 
back to Dremlock and get help."
"Good idea!" the others quickly agreed.
"A little late in coming, though," Aldreya grumbled.
Yet before they got a chance to start back, the lantern suddenly died, plunging the 
chamber into utter blackness. In an instinctive panic, Lannon tried to flee in any 
direction he could, but cold fingers suddenly gripped his throat, and the whispers of 
flame burned into his soul, paralyzing him. A quiet laugh reached his ears from mere 
inches away, and hot breath was on his cheek. Two insane eyes burned in the dark.
"Tenneth Bard!" Lannon thought, his legs going weak.
"Greetings, Squires of Dremlock," came a quiet voice. "Are you surprised to meet 
me here? Did you think I would be hiding away somewhere, protected by my 
Goblins? Well, if you want something done right... Anyway, so here I am. We've 
found each other. Now what do you intend to do?"
"Nnn...nothing," Timlin stammered. "We just want to leave."
"I'm afraid that won't be possible," said the Black Knight. "You came here 
seeking me. And we must see this through."
 "What do you want?" Vorden said. "Why are you doing this?"
Tenneth Bard sighed. "My boy, it's not about what I want. I simply desire the 
downfall of Dremlock, and if I my wish were to come true, I would be content to live 
out my life in peace. But my master has greater plans, and I owe him so much. Now 
before you die, I shall allow you to look upon your slayer."
The lantern suddenly began to shine again, only now it was blue--a cold and 
bitter glow. Tenneth Bard wore a ragged black cloak that seemed to merge with the 
darkness beyond the lantern light. His face was a mask of shifting shadows. Yet his 
violet eyes remained the same--crazed and inhuman.
"See how I planned everything out?" said the Black Knight. "Soon Dremlock will 
be invaded from below--yet not in the manner you might believe. I've created a 
diversion in these mines. Cordus shall send his Knights down here to battle a few 
sorry Goblins, while the bulk of my forces emerge from another point--a hidden one. 
And this army is made up mostly of Knights of the Blood Legion rather than Goblins. 
Victory will come easily.
"And now I will choke the life from you, boy. Go ahead--try to summon your 
powers. I assure you that your efforts will be in vain. Beneath my touch, your Eye of 
Divinity is rendered useless. Goodbye, Lannon Sunshield!"
"Wait!" said Vorden, his voice surprisingly calm. "While you're killing Lannon, 
I'll flee and tell Cordus what you said. Your plans will be ruined."
"Flee if you wish," said the Black Knight. "You won't even escape this chamber 
before you're destroyed."
"Then maybe we can make a bargain," said Vorden.
"I like you," said Tenneth Bard. "You're a thinker, I can tell--much like I was in 
my youth. But there will be no deals this night, only death."
"Don't do this!" Aldreya cried. "Let us help you somehow. If you're cursed by the 
Deep Shadow, the Knights can cure you. I know it is possible."
"I don't need your help," said Tenneth Bard. "Nor do I desire it. I have everything 
I need. Perhaps if that help had come long ago, it might have saved me. But now I'm 
quite set in my ways. And now I must finish my task."
"No, you won't!" Timlin suddenly howled, and he flung himself upon Tenneth 
Bard, ripping his Flayer against the Black Knight's throat. But the Flayer only glanced 
away, as if striking stone. Chuckling, Tenneth Bard batted Timlin aside.
Timlin struck the floor and rolled, rising up again. But he made no move to 
attack, and simply stood there in defeat. "Please don't kill Lannon."
Aldreya raised her dagger and cast a ball of green fire at the Black Knight. But 
the fire deflected away from him, doing no damage. 
"See there, boy?" Tenneth Bard said to Lannon. "Your friends cannot harm me. 
No mortal weapon can damage me. Even those that burn with the flames of Knightly 
enchantment cannot. I have evolved beyond such weaknesses. Soon there will be 
nothing in this realm that can bring me harm."
Desperately Lannon struggled to call forth the Eye, even praying to the Divine 
Essence. But the Eye felt completely closed off to him--blocked by a coldness that 
spread from Tenneth Bard's fingertips all throughout Lannon's being. Nor could he 
manage to move, for the whispers held him fast, speaking to his body and freezing it. 
And slowly the fingers were squeezing tighter on his throat.
Lannon's mind began to go black from the choking, and he felt the end was at 
hand. Is this what the Divine Essence had intended for him? But the Essence was just 
a scared, lonely child, and he knew it had not planned his destiny. It may have granted 
him a divine gift, but it certainly had not written the book of his life.
"Let me tell you a story as you die," Tenneth Bard said. "Once I was a young, 
hopeful Squire like you, Lannon. I had talent the likes of which few had ever 
witnessed--not the Eye of Divinity, mind you. But for sheer talent, I was unmatched. I 
became a great Knight, and brought much glory to Dremlock. But that wasn't enough 
for them. I fell in love with a woman, thus violating the Sacred Laws, and was 
banished from the kingdom forever. It ruined my life, and I became a worthless 
drunkard. My woman left me, and then I had nothing. It seemed the Knights had taken 
everything from me. Of course I grew bitter towards Dremlock, and eventually sought 
revenge.
"But you know what? I am bitter no longer. Now I fight against Dremlock for 
another reason--because my master demands it. If you think I'm still angry about 
losing my Knighthood so long ago, you're sadly mistaken. I care nothing about the 
past. A new and glorious age is soon to be upon us. Unfortunately, you won't live to 
see it."
I guess I won't, Lannon thought dimly. 
Then Vorden's words penetrated Lannon's foggy mind--a sudden whisper in the 
dark. "I've got something for you, Tenneth Bard. I hope you enjoy it!"
A screech arose, and the fingers loosened on Lannon's throat, dropping the lad to 
the floor where he lay struggling for breath. His vision was a tad blurry, but he saw 
Vorden leap away from the Black Knight, his dark sword dripping blood. Tenneth 
Bard staggered, clutching his ribs, in obvious agony.
And then an image of the Divine Essence sprang into Lannon's thoughts. He 
realized it was a memory he was seeing. The Essence had taught him things about the 
Eye of Divinity during his encounter with it, but he couldn't remember what he had 
learned--save for one thing. He now understood how to unlock the Eye on his own.
He envisioned hands reaching into his mind, pulling it in two. The hands were the 
force of his will, and they effortlessly split his being into separate halves. The Eye of 
Divinity sprang out through the gap. With Tenneth Bard's concentration disrupted, the 
whispers departed from Lannon, leaving him able to move. Yet no movement was 
needed. As the Eye sprang out towards Tenneth Bard, it underwent a change, 
becoming a physical force that seized the Black Knight in a crushing grasp.
Tenneth Bard howled in pain and fury, but then slowly he began to break out of 
the clutches that held him. But Vorden sensed his opportunity, and he drove the dark 
sword unmercifully into the Black Knight's chest. Tenneth Bard convulsed in pain, 
falling to his knees, blood soaking the floor at his feet.
"Cut off his head!" Timlin cried.
Vorden withdrew his dark blade and raised it up for the kill. But Tenneth Bard 
suddenly broke free of Lannon's hold and lunged up, staggering away. He turned 
towards Lannon and hissed, "Not over yet...  Just beginning..."
But Vorden flung the sword like a spear, and it lodged in the Black Knight's side. 
He clawed at the blade, then toppled over and lay still.
Vorden leapt over and retrieved his sword. Tenneth Bard's eyes were open wide, 
glazed over in death. Blood pooled out around him.
The lantern light changed back to normal.
"That's the end of him," whispered Vorden.
Lannon grabbed the lantern. He used the Eye to locate the tunnel they had come 
through, and then he drew his power partially inside him.
"Come on," he said. "Let's get out of here!"
The Squires raced through the tunnel and out onto the ledge. They could hear the 
slurping, sucking noises coming from the Mother Nest below. As they ran across the 
ledge, a clawed hand reached up and grabbed Aldreya's leg, nearly tripping her. She 
screamed, kicking furiously in an effort to escape. 
A small Goblin clung to the roots on the cliff face, snarling. It wasn't much 
bigger than a Tree Goblin, but already it had clusters of deadly claws. Aldreya kicked 
its arm, and the Goblin lost its grip on the roots and tumbled back down into the 
darkness. Bleeding wounds were left in Aldreya's leg.
Vorden searched his pack for cloth to bandage it, but Aldreya grabbed his arm. 
"I'm okay for now," she said. "Let's just get away from here!"
They continued on and entered the small tunnel where they were forced to crawl 
upon aching knees. When the tunnel widened enough to stand, Vorden took the time 
to bandage Aldreya's leg. After that they pushed their way through tangles of Iracus 
roots. The Squires hurried as fast as they were able. Their backs felt exposed as they 
raced along, and often they found themselves glancing behind them.
At one point, Vorden again asked the others not to mention his new sword. "I 
could be cast out for using this blade," he said. "This is obviously no ordinary 
weapon. It must be magical."
"Then maybe you should leave it here," said Lannon. "Otherwise, you might get 
caught with it, and get banished anyway."
"I'll take my chances for now," said Vorden, tucking his sword away beneath his 
cloak. "I just can’t leave it behind! It's extraordinary--better than your dragon sword, 
Lannon."
"I'm happy with my dragon sword," Lannon replied, shuddering at the thought of 
Vorden's dark blade which had done so much damage to Tenneth Bard.
At last the Squires reached the stone bridge, and to their delight, they encountered 
the Knights and Saranna. The adults were on the other side, about to start across. 
When they saw the Squires, Taris ordered them to halt.
"Come no closer," he said. "The creature yet lives."
"We can make it," Vorden said to Taris. "We did it once already."
Taris nodded. "One at a time, then. And be swift!"
Vorden raced across without incident, swiping up his axe on the way. (He kept 
his other arm pressed to his body, holding the sword in place beneath his cloak.) 
Timlin and Aldreya managed to make it, and then it was Lannon's turn.
Lannon suddenly found he had lost his nerve. The last thing he wanted was to be 
flung into that dark chasm and end up alone--with all the Iracus Trees and Goblins 
down in these mines. 
Then Lannon's gaze fell on Saranna, and he blushed. Not wanting to appear 
cowardly in her eyes, he pushed his fears aside and bounded across the bridge. Yet 
when he neared the pool, a wooden hand suddenly rose up, wiggling its leafy fingers. 
Lannon froze, watching in horror.
Then Lannon remembered the Eye of Divinity, which was still at the ready, and 
he directed it at the creature in the pool, hoping it would do more than just reveal 
things about the monstrosity. Lannon willed the Eye to grasp the beast, and it 
responded to his command, squeezing the bulky thing motionless. The creature fought 
fiercely but could not break the invisible force that held it. The hand stayed fixed in 
the air above the pool.
Still holding the monster in check, Lannon drew his dragon sword and slashed 
through the wooden arm. The light, ultra sharp blade easily severed it, and the leafy 
hand dropped into the pool with a splash.
Calmly, Lannon walked the rest of the way across the bridge, while the others 
watched him with open mouths and raised eyebrows. When he reached the other side, 
a sick feeling overcame him, and he released the creature and drew the Eye all the 
way inside him. He held his stomach for a moment, feeling the urge to vomit.
"Are you okay?" Taris asked.
Lannon nodded. "I just need to clear my head."
"What happened to you Squires?" the sorcerer asked.
Lannon explained how they had encountered Tenneth Bard, and how the Black 
Knight had tried to kill him. "I used my power to overcome him," Lannon said, with a 
sharp glance at Vorden. "Tenneth Bard is dead."
"So your power has grown," said Taris. "And an old enemy has met his end. This 
has been a great night for our kingdom thus far. Now, if only we knew what Tenneth 
Bard was planning exactly."
"I do know," Lannon said excitedly. "He was planning a diversion. The actual 
attack on Dremlock won't come from under the Temple. It will come from somewhere 
else--maybe another entrance to the mines."
"Old Keep is well defended," said Furlus. "As is the Deep Forge. There must be 
another passage into the mines--one we've forgotten about."
"We must make haste," said Taris.
As they entered the tunnels, three figures suddenly stepped into the lantern light. 
One was a giant, bearded man dressed in black plate armor, bearing a battle axe that 
glowed with crimson fire. Two Goblin Lords stood side-by-side behind him, holding 
twisted staffs. The staffs smoldered with black flames. Though they seemed 
outnumbered, they regarded the party with calm, focused expressions.
"Your master lies dead," Taris said. "Stand aside, or join him."
The giant spoke in a gruff voice. "No matter. The Blood Legion has functioned 
without him for a thousand years. We shall endure. And we have other masters who 
are unknown to you. We have come to destroy you and the Squires. Then Dremlock 
will follow."
"Looks to me like you're outnumbered," said Caldrek. "And in case you haven't 
heard, we know how to defeat the Goblin Lords."
The giant smiled. "Yes, but the Goblin Lords have turned the odds in my favor. 
Or haven't you noticed?"
"I can't move," Shennen whispered. 
"I can't, either!" Timlin cried. "What's happening?"
Lannon tried to call the Eye, but it wouldn't work. Nor could he move. A force 
similar to Tenneth Bard's Whispers was at work within him.
Even Darius was rendered motionless.
"Just some foul magic," said the giant, sighing. "It will hold you fast while I 
cleave off your heads." He spoke matter-of-factly.
Furlus bellowed with rage, but he too was held immobile by the invisible force. 
All his strength would not avail him against these bonds.
"I should have been alert to this," Taris said quietly. "I have failed us all." Then 
he closed his eyes and fell silent.
The Squires could scarcely believe their ears, for never had they heard Taris 
speak in such a grim tone. Lannon fought to unleash the Eye, yet it seemed to lie just 
beyond his grasp. He knew in his heart there was a way to reach it, but he couldn't 
seem to summon the will to do it. His helplessness frustrated him to the point where 
he felt like he was going to explode, and he begged the Divine Essence to give him 
even the slightest assistance. But still the Eye of Divinity remained just out of reach.
The giant shook his head. "Don't blame yourself, sorcerer. These are Priests of 
Tharnin, and their magic is a match even for yours."
"If I could only move!" Caldrek muttered. "I'd show you three. At least finish me 
first, so I can die with honor."
The giant nodded. "It shall be done." He stepped forward and raised his axe for 
the kill, a passive look in his eyes.
And then Caldrek struck. The Red Knight lashed out with his blade and cleaved 
into the giant's armor. For an instant, the Squires' hearts lurched with glee, for they 
were certain Caldrek would prevail and all would be well. But the giant somehow 
reacted swiftly enough to twist sideways and avoid serious injury. Bringing his axe 
down, he knocked Caldrek's blade aside and then stepped back. 
Caldrek cursed. "Almost had you--you lucky devil!"
The giant glanced questioningly at the Goblin Lords, but their eyes were 
narrowed with focus as they struggled to maintain the sorcery they had cast over the 
party. With a shrug, he calmly waited for Caldrek to make another move.
"Guess your priests couldn't hold us all," said Caldrek. "And now it's just you and 
me, big fellow." 
The giant nodded. "As it should be. A fair fight."
The two men moved in on each other, looking for an opening. Caldrek's blade 
burned blue as he brought his own sorcery into play. The giant stood guard before the 
two Goblin Lords, always staying close to them should Caldrek try to disrupt their 
focus.
Their blades finally met with a clatter and a burst of sparks. Back and forth they 
went, slashing furiously at each other with their weapons. Then Caldrek caught a 
glancing blow to the shoulder that staggered him. He retreated a bit.
"Not bad," Caldrek said. "But it will take more than that."
Lannon gave up on trying to call the Eye, and he simply stood and watched, 
hoping Caldrek was skilled enough to beat this foe. The fact that Caldrek seemed 
highly regarded by Cordus and his Tower Masters gave Lannon confidence he would 
find a way to defeat this servant of the Blood Legion. It was the two Goblin Lords that 
worried Lannon the most, for if they could hold Taris in check, and the Eye of 
Divinity, who knew what they were capable of?
Caldrek leapt in and they traded another flurry of blows, and this time the Red 
Knight took a partial slash to the ribs that drew blood. Again Caldrek retreated, and 
this time a shocked look appeared on his face. Sweat dripped from his brow and 
mustache, and he used his sleeve to wipe it from his eyes. He was panting hard.
"I can't believe it!" he said, with a sideways glance at Shennen. "This fellow is 
faster than anyone I've ever sparred with."
"Stay focused," Shennen urged him. "You can defeat this foe. If you fail, all of us 
will die. Do not let that happen."
"Fail?" Caldrek gave a little laugh. "You know me better than that, Shennen. I'll 
get him for you. Don't worry."
The giant did not speak, and his face remained passive. Again he waited for 
Caldrek to strike, preferring to stay on the defensive.
Caldrek moved in on him and again they clashed, and this time Caldrek ripped a 
small wound in the giant's arm. For an instant the Red Knight seemed to gain the 
upper hand, as the giant retreated, wincing in pain. Caldrek lunged after him, 
determined to finish him while the giant was off balance.
Yet the giant quickly recovered his composure, and in response, he drove his axe 
at Caldrek with a slew of vicious strokes. The Red Knight blocked all but one of 
them--and that one caught him in the throat. 
Caldrek gazed in disbelief as he staggered back, clutching his throat. 
"Can't...believe...you..." His words disintegrated and he collapsed, his sword clattering 
to the stone floor. The fire died in his blade.
The Squires cried out in dismay, and again Lannon strove to summon the Eye, 
realizing if he did not, his head would end up separated from his neck. Panic gripped 
him and he gave everything he had, yet still it was not enough. It was like groping 
unsuccessfully for something only an inch away from his fingertips.
The giant bowed his head with respect to Caldrek, and then started forward. 
"Time to get this over with," he muttered. "I'm not fond of killing men in this fashion, 
but it must be done in a time of war." He raised his axe, going for Taris first.
"You must break free now," Taris grunted. "Do it, Furlus!"
Apparently, Taris had been using his own power, working on freeing the 
strongest member of the party, and now Furlus, his face gone purple with strain, 
suddenly managed to break the invisible bonds with the sorcerer's help. A flash of 
blue erupted, momentarily blinding everyone, and Furlus Goblincrusher was free. The 
others, however, still remained locked in place by the spell.
His bearded face bearing a scowl, the Grey Dwarf leapt towards the giant, and 
their axes clanged together deafeningly. The glowing crimson axe met Olrog 
Glaetherin, and a shower of sparks erupted. Growling like a bear, the Dwarf drove the 
giant backwards with maddened strokes. The giant's passive look disintegrated into 
one of surprise, so taken aback was he by the Olrog's fury. Furlus shook with rage, 
and his axe blows were delivered with the legendary vigor of a battle-crazed Dwarf.
The giant was on the defensive, struggling to regain his composure. In a fatal 
move, he saw a brief opening and tried to take Furlus' legs out from under him. The 
Olrog leapt over the blade, and in the same motion, Furlus drove his axe into the 
giant's chest, crunching through armor. The force of the blow sent the giant tumbling 
into the two Goblin Lords, breaking their spell in a fizzling flash of light. The giant 
crumpled to the ground and lay still.
The Goblin Lords turned to flee, for even two Priests of Tharnin were no match 
for the entire party. Still on the attack, Furlus caught one of them even as the Goblin 
turned, his axe cleaving the creature in two. The other one made it a little farther 
before Shennen's blade cut him down. 
Taris stepped in and destroyed their hearts with his burning dagger.
Furlus quickly searched the corpses, and stuck a couple items in his pack without 
commenting on what they were.
Shennen lifted Caldrek's body. "It must have been that Goblin Worm’s poison," 
the Blue Knight said. "He was still weak from it, or Caldrek would have beaten that 
big fellow. I know it in my heart. He saved us all, and we must honor him well. We 
survived many perilous missions together. He was my friend."
Furlus bowed his head.
"He shall receive the highest honor," said Taris. "The White Blood will adorn his 
body, and he shall be promoted to Green. I'll see to it, my friend."
Then the party hurried onward, bearing their slain companion. 
***
They made it back up to the Temple without further incident, sealing all the doors 
they passed through. When they at last reached the top of the stairs, they felt as if a 
great burden had been lifted off their shoulders, though Caldrek's death left them very 
disheartened. Twelve Knights of varying color classes stood guard in the Temple, and 
when they saw the group emerge, they quickly gathered around, some expressing 
cries of dismay when they beheld Caldrek's corpse.
"We encountered Goblin Lords below," said Furlus, "and members of the Blood 
Legion. Cordus was wise to send you here."
"Spread the word," said Taris, "that Caldrek died saving us."
"We shall!" the Knights swore. Their faces were pale over what they saw, and 
dismayed to the point where some had tears in their eyes. Caldrek had been a legend 
to many of them, a warrior no one wanted to spar with, who was used only for the 
most important and dangerous missions. He had seemed almost like an immortal 
presence, someone who inspired hope and who never lost his sense of humor, 
whatever the situation. It would be some time before these Knights could put this 
behind them, and talk of his days would linger on for weeks.
A sorrowful feeling gripped Lannon, and he did not glance at the body. Not long 
ago, Caldrek had been a powerful, living Knight, yet now he was nothing more than a 
part of history. Lannon could feel strongly his own fragile mortality, and he realized 
how easily he could be removed from the world. And when that happened, like 
Caldrek he would be just a piece of history, and like all history, he would eventually 
be forgotten. It had come close to happening in the mines (more than once), and he 
wasn't even yet a Knight. He took some comfort in knowing he possessed the Eye of 
Divinity, which could protect him, but that was balanced by the knowledge that it also 
had made him a target.
They laid Caldrek before the altar, and held a moment of silence in his honor. 
Then the Tower Masters discussed their plans.
"Shennen and Saranna," said Taris, "you should guide the Squires to the East 
Tower, while Furlus and I take our evidence to Cordus. Lannon should come with us, 
for we may need him to locate the place where the attack will come from."
"Lannon might need our help," said Vorden, obviously not wanting to miss out 
on the action. "What if he has to summon the Eye?"
"He will not need your help," said Taris, "and so there is no use putting you other 
Squires at risk. You will do as I say, and be thankful."
"Once the Squires are safely in their quarters," said Furlus, "have them placed 
under guard. Then both of you should come to the North Tower. We will probably 
have need of your skills before this night is through."
"What about Caldrek?" said Shennen.
"We shall leave his body here," said Taris, "and return later for it. Let him rest 
peacefully by the altar of the Divine One for the time being."
"We will look after him," the guards said. "And if anyone dares come forth, we 
will be waiting! We shall fight in his name."
Cries of agreement arose among the other guards. "Let no foul Goblin or failed 
Knight dare set foot in this Sacred Temple," one of them said. "For to our last breaths, 
we shall fight to honor Caldrek!"
"Caldrek will be avenged!" another cried, tears flowing freely.
Furlus nodded. "Your words ring true. I see that the Temple is left in worthy 
hands, and know it will be well defended."
Taris turned to Shennen and took him aside, whispering so no one else could 
hear. The Blue Knight nodded several times.
With that, the company parted ways.
Chapter 19:  The Blood Legion
As Lannon, Taris, and Furlus stepped out into the frozen, moonlit night, they 
encountered four Squires, who were wandering past. These were older boys, nearing 
Knightly age, and their faces were tense and excited. With shaky voices, they greeted 
the Tower Masters.
"What are you Squires up to?" said Furlus, studying their sashes. "I see you bear 
the Silver Axe." Furlus was referring to a small symbol stitched onto their sashes. It 
was a special promotion given to some Squires on rare occasions allowing them to 
carry out limited Knightly duties. "Does Cordus have you on a mission of some sort?" 
"Yes, Master Furlus," said one of the boys. "We're supposed to watch for any 
suspicious activity around Dremlock and report it at once."
"And have you noticed any?" said Furlus.
"None," they replied.
"Then carry on with your duties," Furlus said. He whispered something to Taris, 
and the sorcerer nodded.
With that, the Tower Masters and Lannon continued on. They met more groups 
of Squires on their way to the North Tower, all bearing the Silver Axe insignia on 
their sashes. Like the first bunch, these ones too were wandering around Dremlock 
watching for anything suspicious. Furlus questioned each of them briefly, and hearing 
nothing of value, waved them on with their task.
At last the North Tower loomed over them in the moonlight, and they found 
Cordus Landsaver standing at the top of the steps talking to four of his Red Knights. 
When Cordus saw the others, he hurried down to greet them. 
Taris and Furlus explained all that had happened to them. When Cordus heard 
about the evidence they had uncovered, and the death of Tenneth Bard, he was 
ecstatic, but his mood took a downturn when he learned of Caldrek's death.
"That is very sad news," Cordus said quietly, shaking his head. "Caldrek was the 
most talented fighter Dremlock has seen in ages, and he was one of my most trusted 
Knights. It is only fitting that he died a great hero, and we shall give him the highest 
honors allowed. For three days, this kingdom will lie beneath a veil of silence and 
prayer."
"What has happened while we were gone?" said Taris.
"Dremlock has been put on full alert," Cordus said. "However, it may not be 
enough, if the attack comes suddenly and in great numbers. We have to find their 
entry point into the kingdom, if indeed one exists, and then perhaps we can strike first. 
Obviously, we'd do better to fight this out in the tunnels below rather than right in the 
midst of our kingdom. I wonder if the Blood Legion knows that you've learned of 
their plans. If they do know, the attack will undoubtedly come very soon, for any sort 
of diversion on their part will no longer be necessary."
Taris shook his head. "There is much guesswork involved. We know very little 
about our enemy, and I did not recognize the man who slew Caldrek. Could this be 
the original Blood Legion we're dealing with? Or is this an entirely different group 
bearing the same name? And what was Tenneth Bard's connection to them?"
"After years of spying on our foes," said Cordus, "we could not learn the truth. 
The Blood Legion appeared to pose only a minimal threat at best, at least compared to 
the Goblins. They apparently managed to keep their dealings below Dremlock a 
secret, and it seems possible they are connected to the Goblins somehow."
"I don't know about the other Black Knights," said Taris, "but I believe Tenneth 
Bard had something to do with the new, intelligent Goblins. I'm fairly certain he 
played a hand in creating the Lords--if that truly was him down there." The sorcerer 
glanced apologetically at Lannon. "We cannot know for sure, until we retrieve his 
body. And even that might not be enough to identify him."
"At least the Goblin Puzzle is solved," said Furlus. "That alone was the burden 
that nearly proved Dremlock's undoing.
"Indeed," said Cordus. "And I've already sent out the messengers. Let us pray 
they arrive in time to save Kalamede. As far as Dremlock goes, I've put all our 
Knights and many of our Squires on full watch, so at least we cannot be caught 
entirely by surprise. The High Council is assembled in the Hall, demanding answers. 
But I have been too busy thus far to provide any. You can imagine Moten and 
Kealin's reaction to this. They seem to think I'm the one that's plotting Dremlock's 
downfall."
"We won't be worrying about what Moten thinks much longer," mumbled Furlus. 
"His days of glory are soon to end."
"Why don't you tend to the High Council?" said Taris. "Furlus and I will take 
Lannon and scout around for the attack point."
"I should check all the books and maps," said Furlus. "I might be able to locate 
any forgotten entrances to the mines."
"We have no time for that," said Taris. "The Eye of Divinity can do what needs to 
be done." He placed his hand on Lannon's shoulder.
"I will put someone else on the task of searching the books," said Cordus. 
"Meanwhile, Furlus, you should go along with Taris and the boy and see what you 
can find. Your knowledge of the mines might be needed."
As they watched Cordus enter the North Tower, they did not envy his task of 
having to pacify the Council. At Taris' bidding, Lannon summoned the Eye of 
Divinity and held it at the ready. He was surprised and delighted at how easily he 
could call it forth now, and his confidence soared. He felt ready to undertake this 
mission.
"So where should we begin?" said Taris.
Furlus thought in silence for a time. At last he said, "What about the Cemetery? 
Could the opening lie amid the tombs?"
Lannon's confidence took a dive and his face went pale. He remembered the 
horrors he had glimpsed in that place, and their encounter in the Olrog tombs was still 
fresh in his mind. Dremlock Cemetery was the last place he had expected or wanted to 
go, and he wished Taris would suggest something else.
His wish was not granted.
"That is a good idea," said Taris. "Some of the crypts run deep, with tunnels and 
sealed doors. Could it be that one of them leads to the mines? And what better place 
to begin their attack than in a place no one dares venture into at night? While Knights 
and Squires patrol the borders, our enemies could easily sneak out from the tombs and 
quickly spread throughout Knightwood."
Lannon wished his friends were with them, for if he had to face going into that 
area, he could have used their company. They had defeated Tenneth Bard together, 
and he felt a unique bond with them that he did not share with these Tower Masters. 
Taris and Furlus were wise and powerful, and could probably protect him better than 
anyone else, but it wasn't the same somehow.
"I'd rather not go in there," Lannon said. "Maybe I could stand outside the 
Cemetery and use the Eye. I think that place is haunted."
Taris nodded. "It is very much haunted, Lannon. Dremlock Cemetery holds 
numerous restless spirits who, for differing reasons, have not found peace. But the 
main curse upon that place is caused by sixteen Dark Watchmen who reside in the 
crypts. Their souls, tainted by the Deep Shadow, never sleep."
"But there is something else," said Lannon. "A huge hand."
Taris and Furlus exchanged a puzzled glance.
"Like the ones that knocked us off that bridge?" said Furlus.
Lannon shook his head. "No, more like a ghost or something. It doesn’t feel like a 
living thing, but something else. I guess I can’t explain it."
"A giant spectral hand?" said Taris. "I am not familiar with such a ghost. I have 
met and spoken with nineteen of them--the Watchmen, a former Lord Knight, a 
former Green Knight and sorcerer, and a former Tower Master. I did not know there 
was a twentieth Ghost in there!"
"But you don't have Lannon's power, either," said Furlus. "He sees things even a 
sorcerer like yourself cannot."
"Indeed," said Taris. "Regardless, the ghosts appear rarely and are mostly 
harmless. They can cause a nasty feeling or two, brought on by the aura of the Deep 
Shadow, or they can cause tremendous fear, but that is about all."
Lannon nodded uncertainly. That giant hand had seemed different, ready to crush 
anyone who got too close--worse than those wooden hands down in the mines. Can't I 
just try the Eye from outside first?" he said. "Or maybe we could just put guards 
around the Cemetery."
"You can try searching from beyond the fence first," said Taris. "But if the range 
is too far for you, we shall have to go inside. This is something we need to investigate. 
Our Knights and Squires are spread around the kingdom. We cannot afford to 
concentrate them all in a single area, for if the attack came from elsewhere, it could be 
disastrous. We have no time to stand here and debate this issue."
Furlus had already turned and was walking in the direction of the Cemetery. Taris 
motioned Lannon along and then started walking. Having no choice, Lannon 
reluctantly followed.
As they entered the woods, Taris patted Lannon on the back. "I know you're 
afraid of the Cemetery. Most in Dremlock are. And I know you feel we should be 
trying something different. But that’s because you do not yet know me. I work best 
when I’m alone or with just a few others. Mark my words--while Knights, Squires, 
and High Council members argue and scurry about, we will find the forgotten 
entrance to the mines, if indeed it exists."
"Listen to Taris," said Furlus. "For once he knows what he's talking about. He has 
sound intuition concerning such matters."
Taris raised his eyebrows. "Praise for me? From Furlus Goblincrusher? What 
strange times I find myself in."
"Enjoy it, sorcerer," said Furlus. "Because you probably won't hear it again 
anytime soon."
Their boots crunched loudly in the frosty stillness. Off in the distance, they could 
hear faint voices, as Knights and Squires went about their tasks. Then a wolf howl 
erupted close by. Taris paused and raised his hand, bringing the others to a halt. A 
moment later, another howl came from a little farther away. 
"Why can't I try the Eye from here?" said Lannon. The Cemetery lay just ahead 
through the moonlit woods, and he found, despite all he had been through recently, 
that he was shaking with fear. He kept seeing the giant hand in his mind, reaching 
forth to crush his bones into fragments.
"The distance is too far," said Taris. "You dare not stretch yourself so thin, for the 
danger becomes magnified, I believe."
"What danger?" said Lannon.
"You might see too many sights," said Taris. "And there are other concerns. A 
servant of the Deep Shadow could use your power against you, and you would not 
realize it until too late. The farther you stretch out the Eye, the less accurate your 
viewings will be, and the easier it would be for a foe to threaten you. Remember what 
happened when you gazed upon that Goblin Lord? There are methods that a clever 
adversary could use to destroy your sanity, if not your life. Always get as close to 
your target as possible before using the Eye, for your control will be greater and the 
risks much less."
Lannon said nothing and just gave a slight nod. He knew there was no sense in 
arguing with the sorcerer at this point, for Taris had made up his mind and clearly was 
intent upon journeying to the dreaded place.
When they reached the iron fence that surrounded Dremlock Cemetery, Lannon 
gazed in at the tombs of the dead. The crypts glittered with frost in the moonlight, and 
the pine boughs that hung over them were heavy with snow and bent down. Lannon 
couldn't help but notice how some of those boughs looked like giant, groping hands. 
He was tired of giant hands trying to crush him--Ogre hands, Troll hands, giant 
wooden hands, and now something that seemed worse than all the others combined.
"Well, here we are," said Furlus. "So what happens now?"
"Lannon will try the Eye from here," said Taris. "Not only may it save us time, 
but he could also discover any dangers lurking within."
"Then get on with it, Lannon," said Furlus. 
Lannon nodded, but he dared not speak because he had doubts about whether or 
not he could utter a sound, so dry was his throat. He swallowed and fought to steady 
himself, trying to stop the trembling of his body. Taris spoke a few soothing, 
encouraging words, and Lannon slowly released the Eye into the graveyard.
Lannon tried to block out any images that did not pertain to his goal, but it wasn't 
easy. Phantom visions tried to force their way in, disrupting his focus, and he felt a 
deep revulsion that almost made him physically ill when he thought of that giant hand 
hunched somewhere in the hollow spaces below. He probed much of the Cemetery, 
and then extended the Eye beneath it as far as he was able, searching for an entrance 
to the mines. He ignored Taris' warning about stretching his gaze too thin, for he was 
desperate to complete his goal from beyond the fence. But his gaze could only go a 
short distance below ground once it neared the middle of the graveyard--certainly not 
deep enough to prove anything.
Before he drew the Eye back completely, Lannon summoned all his remaining 
courage and searched for the giant hand. It took all the will he possessed to bring 
himself to look for that horror, and he was grateful, in many ways, when he failed to 
find it. Much uncertainty remained, since he could not cover all the areas below 
ground from here, but now it wasn't difficult to persuade himself that the hand might 
have been a product of his imagination. After all, Taris claimed to know the ghosts 
that lurked within. Perhaps Lannon had misinterpreted one of them, or perhaps one of 
the ghosts had used its power to scare him with an illusion. Taris had said they 
sometimes tried to frighten people.
"I can't find an entrance," Lannon said. "But I don't see any dangers, either."
"Were you able to view all the crypts?" Taris asked.
Slowly Lannon shook his head, knowing what this would mean.
Immediately, Taris pulled out a ring of keys and unlocked the gate. "We shall 
begin near the center," the sorcerer said, "and then work our way out towards the 
edges. I have a strong suspicion a lost entrance lies in here somewhere, and so we 
must be thorough, Lannon. The fate of Dremlock may depend on it."
Lannon nodded, and with wobbly legs, he followed the Tower Masters into the 
Cemetery. The snow was deep here, having piled up over the course of the winter, but 
it was frozen into a crust that they were able to walk atop it. Some of the tombstones 
were just barely visible as they poked out of the snow, while other, more splendid 
ones towered overhead. With each step, Lannon imagined huge fingers exploding up 
through the crust and latching onto him, and he held the Eye of Divinity in a 
defensive posture, imagining that it was a shield protecting him from harm.
When they reached the middle of the Cemetery, they stood in the shadow of a 
stone tomb dedicated to a Lord Knight named Harswald Greatsword. In spite of an 
inscription that told of Harswald's nobility and heroics, the tomb had a strange and 
ugly look, decorated with depictions of leering Goblin heads and grinning skulls at the 
base. Lannon was confused.
Taris smiled, as he watched the boy study the tomb. "Old Garthane," he said. 
"That is what we call this style. Garthane Goldenaxe did the design work on some of 
the tombs of this Cemetery, and several other places, including the East Library in my 
tower. He was an eccentric Olrog Knight, and fiercely stubborn--even by Dwarven 
standards. He had an exuberant personality, which contrasted his fantastic and grim 
sculptures. Throughout the ages, many have declared his work unfit for a holy 
kingdom like Dremlock. However, I very much like his work, and find it quite 
unique."
"Always time for a bit of history and philosophy," said Furlus, rolling his eyes, 
"when Taris Warhawk is present. Now are we going to stand here and freeze, or get 
on with our task? Last I knew, we were facing a possible invasion."
Taris nodded. "Begin your search, Lannon."
Lannon sent his gaze straight down, and about thirty feet below discovered a 
tunnel with a door of Glaetherin--protected by a wheel lock. The passageway had the 
unmistakable feel of the mines. The stone had been tunneled through around the door 
of Glaetherin, and in that tunnel was a man in his final stages of life. He wore stout 
black armor, yet he had been partially crushed, and he had crawled into that tunnel, 
where he lay bleeding away his life. Shocked at this sight, Lannon momentarily lost 
his control, and the Eye veered off in a random direction, going past the tunnel and 
into a large chamber--where an even more dastardly sight awaited Lannon.
The floor of the room was littered with corpses--black-armored men and women 
who had all been crushed and battered. Echoes remained of screams, pain, and terror. 
Some had escaped, fleeing off down the tunnels, vowing never to return. Other echoes 
crowded in, ancient and reeking of evil, and he grew sick to his stomach, doubling 
over. Too late, he realized he had stretched himself too thin, and for an instant, he 
found he could not draw his power back. He realized Taris was clutching his arm, 
mumbling strange words in his ear. The Eye suddenly retreated all the way into him.
"They're all dead!" Lannon panted, struggling to catch his breath. "Killed by 
something... Wait, one man is alive. He crawled into a tunnel, but he won't last long." 
For an instant, Lannon thought he was going to pass out. But then the sickness slipped 
away and he managed to stand up straight.
"Wait here," Taris said sternly, to Furlus. "I am going to go down and speak with 
the dying man. We need to know what caused this."
Furlus scowled, but knowing he needed to stay and protect Lannon, he did as 
Taris commanded. "Just hurry up!" he muttered.
Taris unlocked the tomb and entered, closing the door behind him. The lock 
clicked from inside.
The two waited in silence. Only Furlus' raspy breathing could be heard, as the 
Olrog's barrel chest rose and fell. He fidgeted restlessly, switching his battle axe from 
hand to hand.
Moments later, the lock clicked and Taris stepped out, carrying the dying man 
over his shoulder. Gently, Taris laid him in the snow, and then locked the tomb again. 
The sorcerer knelt over the wounded man.
The Black Knight was big fellow, as wide as Furlus and a foot taller, and his face 
was covered in a bushy red beard. His plate armor had been caved in, his bones 
broken beneath. The snow turned crimson around him.
The Black Knight smiled as he gazed at the heavens. "Open sky," he rasped. 
"Thank you, Birlote, for granting my last wish. "In return, I will answer your 
questions. Know this, however--I shall never betray my brothers."
"I understand," said Taris. "Was Tenneth Bard your leader?"
"Tenneth Bard?" said the Black Knight. "You speak a name I haven't heard since 
I was a Squire of your kingdom."
"A Squire?" said Taris. Then his eyes opened wide. "Thadin?"
The Black Knight nodded. "You should have recognized me sooner, sorcerer. I 
dwelt in your tower, until the High Council cast me out for a single incident of daring 
to enter a forbidden area. No second chances, just banishment." 
"So you joined the Blood Legion?" Taris said quietly. "You traded your honor 
because you felt wronged."
"No," said Thadin. "I wanted to be a Knight, and that is all. Most who join the 
Blood Legion are not as vengeful as you think--they simply want the glory of 
Knighthood, and the Blood Legion offers that if Dremlock will not." He made 
choking noises for a moment, and coughed up blood. "Speak swiftly, sorcerer."
"Who is your leader?"
"Arnin Deathbringer, a powerful sorcerer."
"With eyes of violet?" Taris said.
Thadin nodded. "That is him. Does he yet live?"
Taris didn't answer. "Who slew your brothers, Thadin?"
"A fiend that Arnin raised from the depths," said Thadin. "We were supposed to 
be able to control it and use it to bring down Dremlock, but it went insane and 
attacked us. Now it is loose in the tunnels, seeking the blood of whoever it comes 
across."
"Describe it, Thadin," said Taris.
"Terrible beauty," Thadin said. "I know of no other way to tell of it. And now I 
say this... We are the Blood Legion, and we are mighty. Dremlock's time is nearing an 
end. Your victory will be a brief one, and soon enough, you'll come to understand 
why you cannot prevail against us. All is not as it appears to be. I have long suspected 
the truth, and I have feared it. But now, as I pass from this world, I have no fear. Let 
the future come swiftly, and let all so-called Divine Knights tremble in the face of--"
Thadin's eyes rolled back in death.
Chapter 20:  Spiders, Honors, and Promotions
For nearly two weeks following what had occurred in Dremlock Cemetery, 
Lannon was confined with Vorden and Timlin to the East Tower, and they didn't see 
Aldreya at all during that period. They were permitted to leave their quarters only 
when absolutely necessary. (The same was true for all the less advanced Squires.) 
They didn't know what was happening around the kingdom--only catching bits of 
pieces of rumor that could not be substantiated.
Each evening, Lannon would lie awake for hours wondering if Dremlock had 
finished off the Blood Legion and the Goblin Lords, and the powerful fiend that had 
killed all those Black Knights, or if things had taken a turn for the worse. Many times 
he thought of his parents, so far away in Knights Valley and undoubtedly knowing 
nothing of what was happing at Dremlock. He believed his father would have been 
proud of how he had helped the Knights--even if their victory turned out to be short-
lived. 
And what of Kalamede? Had the city fallen, or were the Goblins driven back? 
Lannon could get no answers from the Knights, and the Eye of Divinity lay dormant, 
for he had no desire to call it forth at this point. He felt he needed to relax his mind, to 
recuperate from the great toll his use of the power had taken on his body. After each 
day of rest, he felt a little stronger and a little more energized.
Yet Vorden had begun to act strangely. When Lannon tried to talk about the 
questions that haunted his mind, Vorden acted as if he couldn't care less, brushing 
Lannon aside with a statement such as, "You worry too much, Lannon." Each night 
Vorden would take out his new sword and just stare at it--sometimes for hours. He 
seemed distant and irritable, and his once hearty appetite had diminished. He had lost 
weight and his skin looked pale. 
When Lannon at last questioned him about it, Vorden insisted nothing was 
wrong, but Lannon wasn't fooled. Something else was wrong with Vorden, and there 
was no doubt in Lannon' mind it had to do with that dark blade.
Finally Lannon confronted him about it one night, demanding to know why he 
hadn't been himself lately.
"I told you," Vorden replied, rolling his eyes. "You worry too much. Why can't 
you just go find something to do?"
"You should get rid of that sword," Lannon said. "It came from the mines, and it 
can't be a good thing. And it's ugly looking, too."
Vorden glowered at him, placing his hands protectively over the sword. Lannon 
suddenly felt like he was staring at the face of total stranger. "Mind your own 
business, Lannon!" Vorden snapped. "This sword saved your life. It hurt Tenneth 
Bard when nothing else could. So quit complaining about it."
"I'm just saying--"
"Well, don't!" Vorden interrupted. He went back to staring at the sword. 
Suddenly, spiders seemed to be crawling on his face--little shadowy ones. They 
appeared there for an instant, and then Lannon blinked his eyes and they were gone.
Had the spiders actually existed?
Vorden looked up. "I'm sick of having you stare at me like I'm a freak. So you 
want to know the truth? Fine! There is a shadow under this thing, Lannon. It interests 
me because it seems so full of depth. I don't know what it is. Sometimes when I watch 
it, it changes form. It's not really good, but I know it's not evil, either. It's not the Deep 
Shadow if that's what you're thinking. It's some kind of new thing--like no one has 
ever thought of. And I'm going to learn its secrets!"
"Just be careful," Lannon said, chilled to the bone. 
***
Thirteen days after Tenneth Bard's death, the Squires were at last permitted to 
leave their quarters but not the East Tower. Lannon met in the Library with Aldreya 
and Timlin to talk things over. Lannon was grateful for this bit of freedom, for he 
knew it meant the Knights must be faring well in their war--yet always he felt like he 
was being watched by someone or something whenever he left his room.
"I think Vorden is becoming possessed," Lannon whispered. "All he does is lie 
around and stare at that stupid sword. I can't reason with him." 
"Can you use your power to find out?" said Aldreya. "Also, you could take a look 
at the sword and learn if it's evil."
Lannon shook his head. "I haven't used the Eye of Divinity since we were down 
in the mines. I don't think I should right now."
"Why not?" said Aldreya. "If I had a power like that, I would use it. What is 
stopping you, Lannon?"
Lannon shrugged. In the back of his mind, he knew he should be practicing with 
the Eye now that he was rested, learning its secrets. But something was thwarting 
him--a deep fear he could not explain. He reasoned that although he felt better overall, 
he was still worn out mentally and required more rest.
"Maybe we should tell Master Garrin about Vorden," said Timlin. "Before 
Vorden ends up possessed like Clayith was."
"We should tell Taris instead," said Aldreya. "He would probably be more 
understanding than anyone else."
"I don't know," said Lannon. "I don't want Vorden to get banished. Maybe we 
should just steal the sword and get rid of it. He keeps it under his bed, wrapped in 
cloth. It wouldn't be hard to swipe it, except that he always stays near it. We'd have to 
get it while he's asleep--take it right out from under him."
"I can do it," said Aldreya. "No one will see me."
Lannon nodded. "Just be careful. Vorden is really obsessed with that sword. If he 
catches you stealing it, who knows what he might do?"
Aldreya smiled. "I can protect myself, Lannon."
"That's true enough," said Lannon, remembering Aldreya was a talented Birlote 
sorceress. "I guess I don't have to worry about that."
"I'll get the sword," she said, smoothing her silver hair away from her pointed 
ears. She smiled devilishly, and for the first time, Lannon saw the Tree Dweller in her 
very strongly. He did not doubt she would complete her goal.
But Aldreya never got a chance to prove her words, for soon after their 
discussion, Vorden stepped into the Library. His color looked better, and he seemed 
like his normal self. "Talking about me?" he said, smiling.
The others said nothing, and exchanged glances. The tension was thick between 
them.
Vorden chuckled. "I got rid of that sword, you know--in case you were 
wondering. I tossed it down a well. I do think it was evil. I know I'm better off 
without it. I snuck outside late last night and dumped it. Hopefully, it sank deep into 
the mud and no one will ever find it down there."
Aldreya smiled "I'm glad you got rid of it. I was worried about you, Vorden. You 
have not seemed yourself, lately."
He shook his head in amusement. "Of course you were worried, Aldreya. You 
always worry about silly things, just like Lannon. But it's taken care of. The well 
swallowed it up...forever. It took a lot of strength to part with it, but I did it. Now I 
think everything's going to be okay."
The Squires glanced uncertainly at each other. Something about Vorden's 
expression seemed haunted and afraid for just an instant.
Then Vorden smiled, looking even more like his usual self. He smoothed his hair 
and adjusted his cloak. "Anyway, it's all done with. Believe me."
The Squires smiled back, and did believe.
***
Two days later, Lannon and his friends, including Jerret Dragonsbane, were 
summoned to the Temple to honor Caldrek. The smell of spring was in the air, and the 
snows were melting swiftly, as Taris came and led them to their destination. They 
were the only Squires called to attend--the rest of the people present were Knights. 
Taris explained that traditionally Squires were not allowed to participate in honoring 
ceremonies for Knights, but Cordus gave them special permission this time due to 
their recent heroics and because Caldrek had died protecting them. Lannon got up the 
nerve to question Taris, but the Tower Master refused to speak of anything concerning 
their war against the Goblins and the Blood Legion, saying that it would all be 
revealed at a feast that would take place a few days later.
Cordus, Furlus, and Taris were at the Temple, along with the rest of the High 
Council--save for Moten Goblinsbane. The broken lid of the altar had been replaced, 
and Caldrek's body lay atop it, bearing armor and sword. Cordus stood before the 
altar, and spoke to the crowd, telling of Caldrek's heroic deeds. Several others spoke 
as well, and by the time everyone was finished, Lannon and his friends were in awe of 
Caldrek and knew a great Knight had passed from the world. Caldrek was promoted 
to Green, with a unanimous vote from the High Council, and a sash bearing that Color 
was laid across his body.
Then the final ceremony began, in which Cordus took a bottle of white fluid and 
poured it over Caldrek's body. For a moment, nothing seemed to happen, but then the 
torches in the Temple all suddenly burned with white fire. A gasp of amazement arose 
from the Knights, and they bowed their heads as one. 
Confused, the Squires did the same. 
The torches returned to normal, and Cordus once again stood before the altar and 
spoke. "Behold!" he cried. "The Divine Essence has called upon Caldrek and blessed 
him, in an act not seen in more than a hundred years! His body shall be preserved for 
time untold for others to look upon."
Upon the altar, Caldrek's body had become encased in crystal.
***
For the next three days, almost all activity in Dremlock ceased, and people stayed 
indoors. This was a further gesture to honor Caldrek--along with all the other Knights 
who had died fighting for Dremlock.
On the fourth night, most of Dremlock was called to a huge feast in the Great 
Hall. It had been a warm day, with a light spring rain falling, and everyone seemed in 
good spirits as they gathered at tables. Though its warmth was hardly needed on this 
night, the huge fireplace was ablaze. Cordus Landsaver, dressed in his silver cloak, 
alone spoke at this gathering, before the food was served and the great celebration 
began.
"I have things to inform you of, Squires," the Lord Knight said. "I know that by 
now all of you are wondering just what is taking place in our war against the Goblins. 
I also know that all of you must have learned through rumor much of what we once 
sought to keep secret. But now the truth shall be known, so that afterwards, you may 
all focus on your training and put everything else out of your minds. 
"First of all, the city of Kalamede was successfully defended by our Knights, and 
the Goblins driven deep into the Bloodlands."
Cheers erupted amongst the crowd, and Cordus smiled. "Secondly," he 
continued,  "the evil below Dremlock has fled deep into the mines, and new doors of 
Glaetherin have been forged to replace the old ones. These doors bear more 
complicated wheel locks that require two wheel masters to solve, so Dremlock should 
be well protected from below. Also, we have taken other means, which I shall not 
mention, to protect our kingdom from any threat that might exist beneath us.
"The rumors that Tenneth Bard is alive," said Cordus, "or was alive, have turned 
out to be completely false. The Blood Legion was led by a sorcerer named Arnin, who 
was not even pretending to be Tenneth Bard, as a member of the Blood Legion 
informed us. As far as we can tell, Arnin had no connection to that long-dead Black 
Knight whatsoever. Arnin was slain some time ago in the mines. While it is true that 
all we could find was a pool of blood where his corpse once lay, the signs indicated he 
was dragged off by a Cave Troll and undoubtedly devoured. We certainly have 
nothing more to fear from him.
"And I have one more thing to add, before we begin a special promotion 
ceremony. Moten Goblinsbane is no longer on the High Council, and he will not be 
returning. Shennen Silverarrow has been promoted to Green and will replace him." 
Cordus motioned to Shennen, who stood up and bowed. The Birlote now wore a green 
cloak rather than a blue one. "And I believe," Cordus added, "Shennen will bring 
much honor to the High Council.
"Now, before we eat, I want Lannon Sunshield, Aldreya Silverhawk, Timlin 
Woodmaster, Vorden Flameblade, and Jerret Dragonsbane to come forward and stand 
before me." The Lord Knight spoke sternly, and the Squires hurried over to him, their 
hearts pounding anxiously.
"I have called you up here, Squires," said Cordus, "to commend you for your 
bravery in the mines. You did Dremlock a great service, and now you will be 
appropriately rewarded." Cordus smiled and winked at them. "Your sashes are 
looking rather dirty, Squires. Why don't you give them to me?"
Confused, the Squires removed their sashes and handed them to Cordus, while 
the other Squires grinned and whispered amongst themselves. The younger ones 
looked baffled, while the older ones exchanged knowing looks. The Lord Knight 
carried the sashes to the fireplace and, one by one, tossed them into the flames, while 
Lannon and his friends glanced at each other in uncertainty. Was the Lord Knight 
being sarcastic? Were they actually here to be punished rather than praised?
Turning back to them, an amused smile on his lips, Cordus said, "Fear not, 
Squires. We call this the Burning of the Sashes--an ancient ritual here at Dremlock. I 
have new sashes for you. Better ones."
Cordus nodded to an Orange Squire, who brought him a wooden box containing 
five new sashes. He handed one to each of the five Squires, while the spectators 
applauded loudly and vigorously. Each new sash had a single silver ribbon stitched 
onto it, as well as the Silver Axe insignia.
With trembling, excited hands, the Squires put on their new sashes. An Orange 
servant brought them a pitcher of water, and the Squires wetted the fabric, watching 
while their names appeared out of nowhere.
"The Silver Axe," said Cordus, "will allow you to perform limited Knightly 
duties. As to you other Squires who may be feeling a bit envious, you should know 
that Promotion Day is coming soon, when the rest of you shall have a chance to earn 
your silver ribbons. Now let our feast begin!"
As the Squires helped themselves to an abundance of delicious foods, Vorden 
glanced at Lannon and said, "Do you believe that, Lannon? Do you think it was 
actually someone other than Tenneth Bard?"
Lannon studied his friends' faces. Aldreya, Vorden, and Timlin watched him 
intently, and he knew they already believed it had been the Black Knight. Jerret, who 
hadn't actually confronted Tenneth Bard, watched with simple curiosity. Lannon 
thought back to the insane, violet eyes and then pictured the statue amid the ruins of 
Serenlock Castle in his mind, and he nodded. Even if the man hadn't spoken as if he 
were Tenneth Bard, the eyes alone were a giveaway.
"It was him," Lannon said. "I don't care what anyone says."
The others looked relieved. "I'm glad you think that," said Vorden, "because I 
know in my heart it was."
Timlin kept running his tiny hands over his sash.
"You're going to wear that thing out," laughed Vorden, "if you keep rubbing it 
that way. You'll make it unreadable."
"We're almost Knights now!" Timlin said excitedly.
"Not quite," said Jerret, grinning. "We still have a lot to learn, Timlin."
"But it is a step in the right direction," said Aldreya. "Now, if we do well during 
Promotion Day, we'll already have two ribbons."
"Why only two?" said Vorden. "I'm going for three altogether, at least. What 
about you, Lannon?"
"I'm happy I got this one," said Lannon. "That way if I don't get one on 
Promotion Day, at least I'll still have made progress."
Vorden shook his head. "I see not much has changed with you since the Color 
Trials, Lannon. You still lack confidence in yourself."
Lannon considered Vorden's words, and then dismissed them. Truthfully, a lot 
had changed--including some things deep within that he was perhaps barely aware of. 
Things had changed faster, and more thoroughly, than he had ever believed they 
would. Tenneth Bard's words echoed through his mind: "Not over yet...  Just 
beginning..."
End.
And now here is a preview of Knights: The Hand of Tharnin (Book 2 of the 
Knights Series), which is currently for sale in various ebook stores.
Knights: The Hand of Tharnin
by Robert E. Keller
Book 2 of the Knights Series
Smart Goblin Publishing 2012
This book is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents either are 
products of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to 
actual events or locales or persons, living or dead, is entirely coincidental.
Copyright © 2012 Robert E. Keller
Chapter 1:  Promotion Day
"Less than a week to go until Promotion Day," Lannon Sunshield said 
apprehensively, drumming his fingers on the tabletop. Lannon, Timlin, Aldreya, 
Vorden, and Jerret were seated in the East Tower Library. It was a badly needed rest 
day, as their training had been brutal recently.
As always, even in daylight hours, the Library was shadowy, the four Birlote 
torches failing to illuminate every corner. The Goblin statues glowered menacingly at 
the Squires from atop the bookshelves. One other Squire sat reading at another table--
a young Birlote male named Gweskel Woodlord. 
Vorden Flameblade looked up from a book he was reading. Like the other boys, 
Vorden, who'd turned seventeen years old recently (he was roughly a year older than 
the other Squires at the table) had grown taller and more muscular over his first 
eleven months at Dremlock Kingdom--but much about him had remained the same. 
His black hair was always kept neat (unlike Lannon's blond tangles), and he always 
conducted himself with the dignity of a young lord or prince. Yet underneath he was 
as wild as a wolf, always seeking something greater. He kept the other Squires on 
edge, leaving them constantly wondering what he would say or do next.
"I feel ready," Vorden said. "What about you, Lannon?"
Lannon shook his head. "I haven't done well at training recently. I just hope these 
tests aren't as tough as the Color Trials."
Aldreya Silverhawk laughed. Her striking green eyes, framed by curly silver hair, 
shone with amusement in the torchlight. "The Color Trials were nothing. These tests 
are going to be much more difficult."
"You've learned plenty of new skills, Lannon," Vorden pointed out. "Training as 
a Blue Squire is difficult, and you've done fine with it."
"True, but I'm fairly average," Lannon admitted. "I'm good with my sword, but 
nothing special. And I'm terrible with a bow."
"Just use the Eye of Divinity," said Jerret Dragonsbane. "If you did that, you 
could pass all the Trials with ease." Jerret grinned at Lannon, knowing Lannon would 
think his statement was folly. Jerret was as tall as Vorden, though less muscular. His 
blond hair was long and uneven in places. (Jerret cut his own hair, refusing to let any 
of Dremlock's barbers touch it for fear they would take too much off.)
"I can't do that," said Lannon. "It would be cheating. The Knights wouldn't allow 
it. Besides..."
"Besides what?" said Jerret.
Lannon shrugged. "It just wouldn't be fair." How could he explain to Jerret the 
deep fear he felt over the thought of using the Eye of Divinity? He couldn't even 
explain it to himself. The notion of summoning his power left him feeling paralyzed. 
Often, as of late, he would awaken sweating and trembling from nightmares he could 
not remember, the sensation of cold fingers on his throat. It appeared that Tenneth 
Bard--the Black Knight and sworn enemy of Dremlock Kingdom--had affected him 
deeply in some way he'd yet to recover from. Lannon felt he should talk to Taris 
Warhawk about it, for the sorcerer might be able to help him overcome his fear. But 
Lannon hadn't seen much of him lately. Taris seemed very busy and distracted, 
always in a hurry to get somewhere. So Lannon had decided to wait until after 
Promotion Day to take any action concerning the Eye of Divinity.
It had been over a month since Lannon had stood face to face with Tenneth Bard 
and lived to tell of it. The Knights had done well in beating back the Goblins, ever 
since Lannon had given them the knowledge they needed to finally kill the Goblin 
Lords. It looked as if Tenneth Bard's plans had been ruined. Yet shadows of doubt 
lingered on, hinting that the threat was not ended.
"I'm going to win the archery contest," Timlin Woodmaster said. "I'm the best in 
all of Dremlock." The short, skinny lad with the thin face smiled at the others' 
annoyed looks. "I'm just telling the truth."
"Maybe you will win," said Vorden, "but you shouldn't be so cocky about it, 
Timlin. And I plan to prove you wrong."
"Did you hear the latest news?" said Jerret. "The Knights retook the North Road 
from the Goblins, driving them deep into the Bloodlands. They reopened the Dead 
Goblin Inn."
"But who will keep the road maintained for travel?" said Lannon, thinking back 
to the horrible conditions he'd encountered on his journey to Dremlock. "I thought the 
Rangers vowed never to return there?"
"The Knights will maintain it from now on," said Jerret. "At least that's what I 
heard. I also heard that two Knights were killed in the tunnels below the Temple here 
at Dremlock--Hune Goldenhammer and Ellena Whitehelm."
"Tenneth Bard's minions must still be in the tunnels," said Vorden, in a low 
voice. "But I wonder where the Black Knight himself is? If he's dead, then why did 
his body vanish so quickly?"
"That's what everyone is asking," said Aldreya. "I know that's why Taris is so 
distracted lately. I think he has been spending all his time trying to find Tenneth Bard. 
I've heard that the Knights have been exploring the tunnels--going places they've 
never dared venture before. I'll bet a lot of Knights are going to die down there."
"They need you, Lannon," said Jerret. "You should use the Eye of Divinity to 
help them find Tenneth Bard."
Lannon shuddered. "Listen, Jerret, I don't want to talk about that right now. Just 
forget I even have the Eye."
"Why?" said Jerret. "What's wrong with you lately? You have a great ability and 
it should be used."
"That's enough, Jerret," Vorden said, in a commanding tone. "Lannon doesn't 
want to discuss it. So drop the subject."
"Fine," said Jerret, "I won't mention it again." The Red Squire glared at the 
tabletop, his face set in a frown.
"I'm going to get some practice," said Vorden. "Who's with me?"
"But we're supposed to be resting," said Timlin. "We're all worn out."
"I want to be ready for Promotion Day," said Vorden. "Don't you?"
"Let's all go practice," said Aldreya. "We need it."
"Practice is boring," said Jerret. "I'm going to go take a nap."
"Lazy sod," Vorden mumbled, drawing an angry stare from Jerret. 
"I think I'll stay here," said Lannon. "I'm a bit sore from training. I need to rest 
up. I'll see you later on."
"Are you sure?" said Vorden. "Only five days left until the Trials."
"I know," said Lannon. "But right now I just don't feel up to practicing. I'm going 
back to my room for a while." Lannon felt a strong desire to be alone. He needed time 
to think everything through. He stood up, placed his trembling hands in his pockets, 
and left the Library.
As Lannon stepped out into the hall, he seemed to sense cold eyes watching him. 
It was always the same lately--whenever he went somewhere, he could feel himself 
being watched. Yet the hallway appeared deserted. Sunlight streamed in through two 
round windows--one at each end, leaving only faint shadows here and there. He 
stopped and listened, but the only noise he heard came from his friends in the Library. 
He considered summoning the Eye of Divinity to at last find out who was stalking 
him (if anyone) and why, but then the fear of using his power gripped him again, 
banishing that idea from his mind.
Lannon made his way up to his quarters and closed the door behind him. He took 
off his boots and lay down on the bed. A great weariness suddenly washed over him. 
He'd not slept well lately--with the nightmares and all--and it was finally catching up 
to him. How was he supposed to prepare for Promotion Day under these 
circumstances?
Soon Lannon drifted off to sleep, and he immediately found himself in another 
nightmare. He was standing somewhere underground--possibly in the maze of mines 
and tunnels below Dremlock Kingdom--and before him was a pit of molten lava. A 
shadowy figure stood on the opposite side of the pit, his arms outstretched--holding a 
bulky object in one hand that Lannon couldn't identify. Writings of the Deep Shadow 
glowed blue on the stone walls and ceiling. The shadowy figure was apparently 
invoking some foul sorcery. The air in the chamber was heavy with dark tension that 
was growing stronger by the moment.
Lannon's vision blurred and the dream began to slip away. But in its final 
moments he could see something dark moving in the pit, twisting about--a thing of 
such power and evil that it seemed nothing could stop it. Was this what the shadowy 
figure had summoned? It seemed too horrible to believe, for surely no one with even a 
shred of sanity would want to call forth something of that nature.
Lannon realized the Eye of Divinity was probing the thing in the lava pool, but 
his power wasn't the same as usual. This was the Eye of Dreams, a magic that could 
show him things the Eye of Divinity could not. It revealed truths as they occurred, and 
no distance was too great for its gaze.
Then the vision faded into black mist. Yet Lannon did not awaken right away, for 
the Deep Shadow was in his heart. Cold fingers gripped his throat again and evil 
laughter echoed in his mind. Two violet, insane eyes burned in the darkness before 
everything went completely black.
***
Over the next few days, Lannon couldn't focus on Promotion Day at all, as his 
thoughts kept wandering back to his nightmare. He didn't reveal the dream to his 
friends, preferring to suffer alone with the gloom that filled his mind. One day, he 
encountered Taris Warhawk on the stairs of the East Tower, and the sorcerer gazed at 
him piercingly and asked if anything was wrong. Lannon just shook his head and 
hurried past Taris up to his chamber.
When Promotion Day finally arrived, Lannon failed all five Trials--as if he 
simply lacked the will to try. These tests were indeed more difficult than the Color 
Trials, consisting of weapon skills, resistance to sorcery, and tests involving strength, 
agility, balance, and knowledge. Lannon should have passed the knowledge test 
easily, considering his love for books and history, but his mind kept going blank. He 
could sense others watching him, judging him because of the power he possessed, and 
the pressure grew nearly unbearable.
At last it was over. Once again Vorden did the best of all the Squires. In fact, the 
only combat-related test he was clearly beaten at was Archery (by little Timlin, who 
was untouchable with the bow). Timlin, Jerret, and Aldreya did well also, and 
Lannon's friends all received an additional ribbon on their sashes--getting them that 
much closer to Knighthood. Lannon, however, did not earn a ribbon and would have 
to wait that much longer to become a Knight (if he ever did become one).
Lannon's misery and feelings of isolation made him want to flee back to the East 
Tower and hide, but instead he forced himself to do the right thing and celebrate with 
his friends in the Great Hall.
Lannon didn't eat much of the fine dinner that was laid out before the Squires, 
and he sat with his head bowed in spite of the talking and laughing going on around 
him. He avoided making eye contact with anyone. He wondered what they all thought 
of him--the bearer of the Eye of Divinity, who'd performed so miserably on 
Promotion Day. They couldn't see the struggles going on inside him. All they saw 
was a lad who was supposed to have an advantage but couldn't even pass a single one 
of the Trials. He was certain the Squires were whispering amongst themselves about 
how pathetic he was.
"You should eat something, Lannon," said Vorden, who'd already cleaned two 
plates. "You don't want to end up as skinny as Timlin."
"Lannon did poorly," said Aldreya. "Perhaps he doesn't feel like eating. I know I 
wouldn't if I had done that badly at the Trials."
Lannon sighed. He knew Aldreya meant no harm, and it was simply her way to 
be blunt. But the words stung nonetheless.
"I don't think Lannon wants that pointed out, Aldreya," said Jerret. "It's kind of 
rude."
Aldreya looked puzzled. "Why is it rude? I only speak the truth."
"That's not the point," said Jerret. "You Birlotes are all kind of rude. You think 
you're superior to everyone else."
"That's ridiculous," said Aldreya, her green eyes flashing in anger. "I consider 
everyone at this table to be my friend and my equal."
Jerret shrugged. "Sorry, but that's how I see Birlotes."
"Your view is misguided, Jerret," said Vorden. "If the Birlotes act superior, it's 
just the way they're taught. Most of the Birlotes here, including Aldreya, have royal 
blood in them and were raised accordingly. And besides, Aldreya is right. You really 
did quite poorly, Lannon. What happened out there? With the Eye of Divinity, you 
should have dominated Promotion Day."
Lannon considered simply excusing himself and returning to the East Tower, but 
he felt obligated to explain things to his friends. "I didn't use the Eye. I haven't been 
summoning it lately. Truthfully, I've been afraid."
"That doesn't make sense," said Vorden. "You were getting quite good at using it, 
last I knew. What could you possibly be afraid of?"
"I don't know," said Lannon. "I keep dreaming of Tenneth Bard--that he's up to 
something below Dremlock. But that's not really why I'm afraid. I guess I'm afraid of 
what the Eye might show me."
"I wish I had your power," said Timlin, his eyes shining. "I would use it all the 
time and probe every secret."
"There are some things," said Lannon, "that you really wouldn't want to see, 
Timlin. Things too dark to even imagine."
"Dark things don't bother me," said Timlin. He wrung his hands together, as if 
suddenly agitated. "I've seen my share--without the Eye of Divinity."
"Are you talking about those scars on your back?" said Vorden, gazing with pity 
at Timlin. "You must have really suffered."
"That's none of your concern, Vorden," Timlin said. "Don't bring up things from 
my past in public. You're just as rude as Aldreya. Anyway, I wasn't talking about that. 
I know what you think." He fell silent and gave no indication he was going to explain 
that last statement.
"Well, what do I think?" Vorden finally asked.
Timlin glowered at him. "You think I was corrupted when I was younger, 
because of the beatings and all. Well, you're wrong. Those lashings didn't change me 
and never will--unless they made me tougher, which is a good thing. I couldn't care 
less about a few scars or going hungry all the time. That's just life, and life is tough. 
You're jealous because I was far better than you today at archery."
"That's nonsense," said Vorden. "Calm down. I'm sorry for mentioning your past, 
but you kind of opened the door for it. Anyway, let's just put this behind us." Vorden 
extended his hand to Timlin. "Are we still friends?"
Timlin's face was crimson, his eyes smoldering. His tiny hands were squeezed 
into fists. He was trembling.
"Enough!" Vorden snapped. "Calm yourself!" In spite of Vorden's harsh tone, 
there was a flicker of fear in his eyes.
Timlin fought with himself for an instant longer and then his anger seemed to 
diminish. He sighed, then nodded. "Okay, just don't talk about my past. I don't care 
about it, so why should you?"
"I get it," said Vorden, rolling his eyes. "You don't care about it. Well, neither do 
I at this point. So let's forget it."
For an instant, Timlin's lower lip quivered and he looked like he might cry. Then 
he hunkered down, his face sullen.
An uncomfortable silence followed. Lannon felt sympathy for Timlin, but as 
usual, the skinny lad's strange personality disturbed him. Timlin seemed to lack a true 
sense of honor or even basic concern for anyone but himself, and there was no telling 
what he might do if he grew angry enough. Timlin reminded Lannon of a poisonous 
spider lying in wait for anyone foolish enough to provoke him.
"That little incident aside," said Vorden, again rolling his eyes, "I want to steer 
this conversation back toward you, Lannon."
"I'd rather not," said Lannon. "I just need time to work things out."
A shadow fell upon Lannon. Startled, he turned quickly in his chair--to find Taris 
Warhawk. The sorcerer nodded in greeting.
"Lannon, I would like to speak to you later in private," said Taris, "when you get 
back to the East Tower."
Lannon's heart sped up. Taris' face and voice seemed grim. "What's it about?" he 
asked.
"As I said," Taris reminded him, "we shall speak in private."
"I'm done eating," said Lannon, "if you want to go now." He was anxious to hear 
what Taris had to say.
Taris nodded. "My duties here are finished. We shall walk together outside and 
talk. This business is quite pressing."
***
Lannon said goodbye to his friends and followed Taris out into a cold spring 
night. A bright moon shone in the sky. Taris had donned his hood and now seemed 
little more than a shadow moving quietly ahead of Lannon. The trail that led through 
the great pine forest of Knightwood was deserted. A few wolf howls echoed through 
the crisp air. Lannon shivered--from the cold and from nervousness--and pulled his 
fur cloak tighter around himself.
At last, Taris halted. He glanced about, making sure the trail was deserted. "The 
reason I wanted to speak with you is that I have need of your skills. In the tunnels 
below Dremlock, we discovered a man who claims to harbor a demon inside him. He 
seemed to be wandering aimlessly and surrendered to us without a fight. He wore no 
shirt and had a ragged, half-starved look about him. I have identified a strange aura 
engulfing him unlike anything I have ever encountered. Also, he seems to need fire to 
keep himself alive."
"What is a demon?" said Lannon, shuddering for some reason he didn't quite 
understand. "Some type of Goblin?"
"Demons, as we know them," said Taris, "are spirit creatures that exist in nature. 
They are wild spirits. Some of the ancient religions throughout our continent of 
Gallamerth describe demons as purely evil creatures that are almost the exact opposite 
of the most divine gods. But here at Dremlock we are simply referring to wild spirits 
that never lived as mortal creatures. They can be good, evil, or neutral--but they are 
natural creatures of earthly origin."
Again, Lannon shuddered. Something about this topic bothered his instincts, 
triggering some deep fear of the unknown.
"It appears," said Taris, pausing to gaze at Lannon in the moonlight, "that this 
man is possessed by a truly wicked one. The demon he supposedly carries has 
pledged to destroy Dremlock Kingdom. It also claims that it knows just how it can 
accomplish the deed. It mocks us and plays games with us."
Lannon didn't like the sound of that at all, and he wished Taris had not brought 
this problem to him. He glanced into the shadowy forest, chills creeping over his 
flesh. "Is he a member of the Blood Legion?" Lannon thought back to his encounter 
with the group of former Knights who were sworn to topple Dremlock.
"We don't know," said Taris. "As I said, he was clad only in ragged trousers when 
we found him. We assume that he is, but can't verify it. Anyway, we need you to 
probe him with the Eye of Divinity and unlock his secrets."
Lannon shook his head. "I'm not sure I can, Master Taris. I've had a lot of trouble 
summoning the Eye lately. I have some kind of..." He swallowed hard. "Some kind of 
fear about it."
"The use of magic always invokes fear," said Taris. "The path of sorcery is a very 
dangerous one. But any fear can be overcome."
Lannon sighed. "I'm not sure I can do this, that I have the strength. Is there 
another way to learn his secrets?
Taris' face contorted with anger. With his pointy chin and ears, the Birlote 
sorcerer looked particularly devilish in the moonlight. "What are you saying, lad? 
You wanted to be a Squire of Dremlock Kingdom, and so you are. Now you are asked 
to do an important task, and you surrender to your fears? We are locked in a constant 
battle against the Deep Shadow, my young friend, unless you've forgotten. You have 
a sworn duty to defend this kingdom."
Lannon knew Taris was right, but he still felt terrified at the prospect of using the 
Eye of Divinity. "I'll do it of course, Master Taris. I know it's my duty. I just feel 
smothered by this fear."
"I'll stand with you," said Taris, patting Lannon on the back. "We shall go to the 
Deep Forge this very night, where the demon man awaits us."
Lannon had never been to the smoldering Deep Forge, where the mighty weapons 
and armor for the Knights of Dremlock were crafted.
Taris cleared his throat. "There is...one other detail. The man was not just clad in 
trousers when we found him, in spite of what I said a moment ago. He was also 
wearing a metal gauntlet on his right hand. The glove seems hopelessly locked onto 
his flesh. It is some evil and dangerous device of Tharnin. I sensed terrible power 
radiating from it. My guess is that the demon is fused somehow into the gauntlet and 
is influencing the man from there."
Lannon's legs felt weak from dread. He wanted to sit down. "And you want me to 
examine the gauntlet as well?"
"Of course," said Taris. "We need to learn everything we can about this bizarre 
fellow and the threat he might pose to us. The fact remains that there is no one else in 
this kingdom who can do what you do, Lannon. Forget about Promotion Day or any 
of that. The Eye of Divinity is what truly matters."
"If I don't get promoted," said Lannon, "how will I ever become a Knight? I don't 
want to stay a Squire forever."
"You're here to serve Dremlock," said Taris, "and not to worry about promotions. 
They will come in their own time. For now, you must focus on your duties. There are 
other ways of achieving Knighthood besides the Trials."
"I'll stay focused, Master Taris."
"Good," said Taris, "but be very careful. This demon man is immensely powerful. 
He already killed one of the Knights--Blain Broadhammer, an irreplaceable 
blacksmith in the Deep Forge. Somehow he broke free of his chains and choked the 
powerful Grey Dwarf right in front of six Knights. Then he simply smiled and 
surrendered again. That gauntlet of his seems to have a mind of its own, and if a 
demon truly inhabits it, then in fact it does think for itself!"
"I would rather not have known that," said Lannon, wincing. He envisioned a 
cold steel hand gripping his throat and cutting off his breath.
"Yet you must know," said Taris, "so you are aware of the danger. And you 
should also know that I instinctively feel the demon man is telling the truth--that he 
can indeed destroy Dremlock if we don't find a way to stop him."
Lannon breathed deeply, savoring the fresh, pine-scented spring air. He gazed up 
at the huge trees that stood dark against the moonlight--trees that concealed Dremlock 
and all of its secrets. Could the ancient and legendary kingdom really fall? If Taris 
believed it was possible, it probably was. The sorcerer was the wisest man Lannon 
knew. Lannon stood there in silence for a few moments, with Taris looking on, 
thinking of all the beauty and wonder that was Dremlock and dreading the thought of 
facing the ugliness that lay below in a chamber of fire.
"Can he actually destroy Dremlock?" Lannon asked, hoping Taris had misspoken 
somehow (though he knew it wasn't likely).
But Taris didn't answer. He simply started off down the trail.
Chapter 2:  Flame and Chaos
Though he knew Taris wasn't fooled, Lannon insisted he needed his friends with 
him in order to use the Eye of Divinity. But that wasn't stretching the truth to any 
great degree, since it was possible he would require their help at least in summoning 
the Eye. Lannon's confidence had eroded badly over the weeks, even as his 
unexplainable fears had grown more potent. His friends gave him a confidence 
boost--especially Vorden, who always seemed so sure of himself.
 Taris reluctantly agreed to allow Vorden and Timlin--Lannon's fellow Blue 
Squires--to go with them to the Deep Forge. "It will put them in danger," he said, "but 
if you feel it is necessary, I will agree to it."
Lannon lowered his gaze. He felt cowardly for endangering his friends, but he 
needed their support. And he knew they would willingly--even eagerly, in Vorden's 
case--stand by his side.
The Deep Forge was located below the West Tower. Taris and Lannon stepped 
from the pine forest and back into the clearing where the huge Tower of Arms stood 
dark and imposing against the moonlit sky. Lannon's gaze passed up the wall of the 
stone keep that was circled by balconies and dotted with many windows, and once 
again he felt like he was being watched. The tower looked like a manmade mountain 
beneath the moon (though it was not as large as the North Tower that the Lord Knight 
of Dremlock, Cordus Landsaver, resided in). Lannon wondered how far down into 
earth and stone the Deep Forge lay, and if it was plagued by the same evils as other 
areas of the mines.
Two bearded, muscular Knights stood on either side of the twelve-foot-tall iron 
door. They pulled it open, and Taris and Lannon entered the Great Hall that was filled 
with life-sized paintings of Knights. The hall was warmed by a stone fireplace, above 
which hung a painting of the first, and most famous, Lord Knight of Dremlock--
Kuran Darkender. The Squires were still eating at tables and celebrating Promotion 
Day. Taris motioned to Vorden and Timlin, and the two Squires hurried over.
"What's going on?" Vorden asked.
"Follow us to the Deep Forge," was Taris' only reply.
They passed beyond a door marked Armory Entrance and into a room full of 
many crates and racks holding weapons that gleamed in the torchlight. They followed 
a stone stairway that wound down into the earth beneath the tower and took them into 
a tunnel full of crates, barrels, and mining gear. Typically, the mines beneath 
Dremlock inspired dark feelings within Lannon, but this area seemed free of that 
heavy gloom.
At last, Taris told Vorden and Timlin what he'd told Lannon, and he made the 
Squires swear an oath of secrecy. Vorden beamed with excitement, but Timlin seemed 
close to losing his nerve.
"A demon?" said Vorden. "They actually exist?"
"Demons are very real," said Taris. "Sorcerers of Tharnin have enslaved them in 
the past and forced them to serve. The most powerful demons of all tend to dwell in 
the Paltos Wasteland for some unknown reason, which is a foggy, rocky valley in a 
stretch of mountains beyond Silverland."
Timlin hesitated, his face pale. "I'm not sure I want to go down there, Master 
Taris. I don't like the mines, and...and I don't think I want to confront that fellow. I 
just don't feel ready for it."
"I understand your fear," said Taris, "but if you're ever going to be a Knight, you 
need to stop letting it dictate your actions. Lannon needs you, and I must insist that 
you accompany us."
"Lannon doesn't need me at all," Timlin admitted. "He can summon the Eye of 
Divinity on his own."
"Timlin!" Vorden muttered, throwing up his hands in disbelief.
"Lannon needs you, regardless," said Taris. "It's simply a matter of having his 
friends with him for support."
Yet Timlin still didn't move. "I just don't want to go."
His face darkening, Taris seized Timlin's tunic sleeve. "I've had enough of you 
succumbing to your fears! You will either accompany us to the Deep Forge or you 
will be demoted to the rank of Orange. Is that understood?"
Timlin's eyes widened. "Yes, it's understood."
But Taris' piercing gaze lingered on him. "I don't wish to be so strict with you, 
Timlin, but Dremlock is no place for cowards. Fear or not, you must learn to act. 
Talent is not enough. Your attitude could put lives at risk."
Timlin swallowed, and nodded. His eyes narrowed. "I said I understand. So let go 
of my tunic."
"I'll let you go when I feel the need," Taris said coldly.
"Better watch yourself," Timlin mumbled.
Vorden and Lannon exchanged anxious glances, thinking that Timlin had just 
gone way too far and was about to lose his chance at Knighthood. This was the first 
time they had ever heard a Squire dare to threaten a Knight--and not just any Knight, 
but a member of the High Council who was outranked only by the Lord Knight 
himself. And this was Taris Warhawk--a sorcerer of unmatched skill and the last 
person at Dremlock one would want to threaten.
But Taris only laughed. "You think you can intimidate me, little man? You have 
no clue what trials I have gone through. You can't deal with your own fears, so you 
try to make others fear you. You have a dark side, certainly, and you feel perfectly 
justified in taking revenge on anyone who provokes you. But that's not the attitude of 
a Knight, either. You need to work on your character."
Timlin lowered his gaze.
Taris released him. "Build your character, or your flaws will cause you, and those 
around you, to suffer." With that, the Tower Master started off again.
Timlin glared at him from behind, but followed. Vorden sighed and wiped sweat 
from his brow, giving Lannon a relieved glance.
"That goes for you as well, Lannon," Taris said. "Like Timlin, you must learn to 
overcome your fear. I have seen far too many Squires and Knights fail because the 
terror grew to consume them." He paused and turned, his eyes shining like green fire 
in the torchlight. "The Deep Shadow is all about fear, my young friends. It will grow 
in your hearts and try to break your will. You must resist it."
"I'm not afraid," said Vorden, raising his chin defiantly.
"I don't doubt your words," said Taris. "But you suffer from the opposite problem 
as Lannon and Timlin. You are arrogantly brave, and that could be your downfall. 
You Squires are a bit older and more seasoned now. It's time you started to confront 
your character flaws."
"I wish I was perfect like you, Taris," Timlin said, a hint of a sneer on his lips. 
"Maybe if I keep trying, I'll get there."
"How long have you been at Dremlock, Timlin?" said Taris.
"Almost a year," said Timlin. "Why?"
"Then you should know by now," said the sorcerer, "to always address me as 
Master Taris--even when you're angry at me. You will show respect!"
"Sorry, Master Taris," Timlin mumbled.
"And I'm far from perfect," said Taris. "I've made many mistakes on the path to 
Knighthood, some that I deeply regret. What you view as perfection is simply the 
result of a lot of harsh lessons--like a blade that a blacksmith has had to hammer away 
at to smooth out the flaws. I wouldn't wish the troubles I have endured upon anyone."
"I thought we were on an important mission," said Timlin. "So why are we 
standing in this tunnel discussing character issues?"
Taris turned, glowering. "You're developing quite a bold tongue, Timlin. I'm not 
the only one who has noticed that lately. I can be very forgiving, but rest assured that 
there are plenty of Knights who have no tolerance for such behavior from Squires. 
And my patience is almost gone."
"He's right, Timlin," said Vorden. "You're going way too far lately. You're sure to 
get tossed out of Dremlock!"
Timlin seemed to be fighting his usual internal battle for control, his eyes 
smoldering. Finally he bowed his head. "I guess I'll watch what I say from now on, 
Master Taris. I apologize."
"We will discuss this later," said Taris.
Lannon gazed at Timlin with pity. Clearly, Timlin was deeply troubled, and 
Lannon couldn't begin to fathom what was going on in his mind. Timlin seemed to 
dwell in some tiny, dark world that no one else could peer into.
They passed through caverns stacked with crates and lined with racks of weapons 
and armor. A series of stone steps then took them deep into the earth and down into 
more stone tunnels.
The Deep Forge was a single large, hot cavern filled with the smells of oil, 
leather, sweat, and smoldering iron. Olrogs--the Grey Dwarves--hammered at 
weapons and armor. When they weren't crafting new battle gear, they were busy 
repairing damaged gear. They worked vigorously amongst the furnaces and water-
filled barrels, their powerful bodies seemingly tireless.
 The ringing of hammers against metal vibrated in Lannon's ears, and the heat 
quickly made him sweat. He leaned against a weapon rack to steady himself, but Taris 
motioned him impatiently along.
Cordus Landsaver, the Lord Knight of Dremlock, and Furlus Goblincrusher, the 
West Tower Master, were gathered near a furnace, where a curly-haired man dressed 
only in ragged trousers was chained to the side of it. The furnace was blazing, and the 
heat should have severely burned him, but he seemed relaxed and was actually 
smiling. On one of his hands, a bulky metal gauntlet gleamed in the torchlight, the 
fingers twitching.
Cordus nodded to Taris, then frowned. "Why are the other Squires here?"
"Lannon needs them," said Taris, shrugging.
Lannon shrank back. The fellow in chains was gazing at him with insane glee, 
while his bizarre metal glove wiggled its fingers. Lannon glanced at Vorden and saw 
that his face was pale. Timlin's body trembled, but he held his ground.
"You've brought the little fool," the chained man said. He threw back his head 
and laughed, then said, "Bring him closer."
"Stay where you are, Lannon," Cordus commanded. The Lord Knight's dark, 
tangled hair and beard seemed particularly unkempt. His face looked tired. He wore 
his shining breastplate which was adorned with an image of the three great towers that 
made up Dremlock Kingdom, and his sword was drawn. "I'm sure Taris explained to 
you that this man is possessed and very dangerous."
"The fire actually gives him strength," said Furlus. "Just so you lads know, we 
didn't chain him there to torture him. He seemed to be dying and kept pleading with 
us to put him near flame." The strongest Knight in Dremlock held his heavy battle axe 
in one hand, and his eyes never left the chained man. Like Cordus, he wore his armor 
in spite of the heat. His eyes--set beneath drooping brows--smoldered like the flames 
of the furnace.
"I cannot understand how he resists the heat," Cordus said. "Such power seems 
impossible. How can one withstand fire for hours at a time?"
Lannon struggled to steady his nerves. "What...what should I do?"
"Use the Eye of Divinity, of course," said Taris, "I'll see to it that no harm befalls 
you." He placed his hand on Lannon's shoulder.
"Yes, use your Eye," said the chained man. "I want you to use it on me. My name 
is Vellera, by the way. And you're Lannon--with the dramatic Knightly last name of 
Sunshield. Actually, it's kind of weak. Couldn't you have chosen Skullsplitter or 
Bonebreaker or something?"
"So why have you come to Dremlock?" Lannon asked.
Vellera winked at Lannon. "Death and destruction."
"We've already questioned him," said Furlus, waving his hand impatiently. "He 
won't tell us his true purpose."
"I won't tell you, Dwarf," Vellera said. "Your ugly beard and fat belly offends 
me. But I find the boy to be more of what I consider pleasant company." He focused 
his gaze on Lannon. "I came here to destroy Dremlock--and I did reveal that. But I 
have another purpose as well. My purpose is to destroy you, Lannon. That's why I 
want you to use the Eye of Divinity on me, so I can slay you."
"Maybe you're the one who will be slain!" snarled Vorden, stepping forward and 
raising his sword. "How dare you threaten my friend?"
"Vorden!" Cordus growled, shoving him back. "You shall remain silent and know 
your place, Squire. This is for Lannon to deal with."
"I'm sorry, Master Cordus," said Vorden. 
Lannon's legs weakened beneath him. Somehow, he knew Vellera wasn't lying--
that he did intend to kill Lannon. He glanced helplessly at Taris.
Taris squeezed Lannon's shoulder reassuringly. "Don't believe his lies, Lannon. 
This Vellera is a servant of the Deep Shadow. He is no doubt terrified that you will 
learn his secrets, and he is trying to frighten you into giving up. You think Vellera is 
speaking the truth about his intentions, but bear in mind that the Deep Shadow is 
working through him to convince you that his words are true."
"I understand," said Lannon. He did indeed understand, but that knowledge failed 
to calm his terror. "So why do you want to kill me?"
"The power you possess, of course," said Vellera. "You see too much. Therefore, 
you must die. Once you are slain, Dremlock will fall. The demon that rules over me 
grants me unlimited power, as you will soon learn. The Knights of Dremlock are no 
match for me. I will slay them all. And then Tharnin will deal with your so-called 
god, that pathetic creature you call the Divine Essence."
Lannon focused on holding his ground, on acting like a Knight and not a coward. 
It took all of his willpower, but he managed to fight off his fears and convince himself 
he would use the Eye of Divinity.
"You Knights have brought terrible suffering to my realm," said Vellera, his face 
contorting in anger. "How many tears have been wept over the actions of Dremlock? 
This kingdom, with its perverse god and murderous legion of Knights, will soon pay 
for the centuries of bloodshed."
"You speak of the killing of lowly Goblins," said Furlus. "Mindless monsters that 
refuse to let humans live in peace. We have no choice but to slay them."
"You have a choice!" Vellera shouted. "You could choose to let this world be 
absorbed by the realm of Tharnin, and then all would be peaceful. Instead you make 
war on us--endless, terrible war."
The metal gauntlet clenched into a fist. Two blue stones embedded in it glowed 
with a cold light. "But the war is coming to an end. Know this--I have become the 
Hand of Tharnin. Alone, I will crush this kingdom and leave nothing but bones and 
rubble."
"I've heard enough of this vile ranting!" snarled Cordus. "Lannon, summon the 
Eye and lay bare his secrets."
Lannon struggled hard to call forth his power, and at last he felt his consciousness 
divide in two. The Eye of Divinity surged forth and probed Vellera, but all Lannon 
could see was writhing darkness. He hesitated, unsure of what to do.
"Tell us what you see!" Taris said, clutching his shoulder.
"Nothing," said Lannon, shaking his head. "Just shadows."
"You must try harder," said Taris. "Focus!"
Lannon probed deep into the man, and the shroud of darkness fell away to reveal 
raging flames. Vellera was burning within, a fiery presence that emanated deep hatred 
toward Lannon. It was like a wall of flames engulfing something too terrible to 
imagine. 
As Lannon watched helplessly, unable to move, the metal gauntlet burst through 
the wall of fire and closed around Lannon's throat. The gauntlet possessed a horrific 
strength that should have crushed Lannon's throat with ease, but he instinctively used 
the Eye of Divinity to shield himself.
For a moment, Lannon struggled fiercely to keep the metal hand from strangling 
him, but he was quickly losing ground. He could feel the fingers tightening down, 
closing off his windpipe.
Then a flash of light erupted and Lannon's mind was plunged into a darkness so 
heavy he wasn't sure he would ever awaken.
Chapter 3:  Jace the Wanderer
When Lannon awoke, he was in the Hall of Healing. He tried to sit up, but one of 
the healers--a lean man with wavy red hair--hurried over and urged him to stay lying 
down. The White Knight gazed at Lannon with concern. "You need more rest, 
Squire," he said, "or your legs will surely buckle beneath you. Your strength has not 
yet returned."
"What happened to me?" asked Lannon. He had no concept of time. "How long 
have I been unconscious?"
"For about a week," said the White Knight. 
Lannon was stunned by the news. "An entire week, asleep?"
"Well, not asleep," said the healer, "in the sense you're familiar with. You were 
able to eat and drink, but your mind was in a state of darkness. You were nearly killed 
by dark sorcery. If it hadn't been for Taris Warhawk, you surely would have died. 
Sadly, Taris suffered severe burns, but he is expected to recover."
Lannon groaned. "Did anyone else get hurt?"
"Yes," said the White Knight, sighing. "Furlus Goblincrusher suffered a terrible 
injury to his leg. He may never walk again, though it depends on his strength of will. 
Both Taris and Furlus are in a special area of the Hall of Healing reserved for High 
Council members, so you won't be able to see them without being summoned. But I 
assure you they are recovering."
Lannon could hardly believe what he'd just heard. Both Tower Masters--two 
extremely powerful Knights--had been struck down. "What of the demon man?" he 
asked. "The one who attacked me?"
The White Knight bowed his head. "Perhaps you should rest for now."
Lannon seized his robe. "You must tell me!"
"He escaped from the Deep Forge," said the White Knight. "The chamber filled 
with smoke, and when the smoke cleared, there was no trace of the man. A massive 
search is taking place throughout Dremlock."
"I can't believe this," Lannon whispered, the will drained from him. Suddenly, 
Dremlock seemed to have fallen under a shadow of despair. The Hall of Healing was 
supposed to be bright and pleasant, with its hanging plants, marble bricks, and 
beautiful fountains and pools. But Lannon's mind was choked in darkness and all he 
could see was ugliness.
"Perhaps a bath would improve your mood," said the healer, "and help you relax. 
Would you like to give it a try?"
With the help of the healer, Lannon was able to leave the bed, bathe, and put on 
fresh clothes. His legs were unsteady, so he returned to bed afterwards. He felt 
terribly restless, wanting to do anything but lay there. 
"You must rest until after dinner," said the healer, "and then you can walk around 
some. I suspect that by tomorrow morning you should be ready to return to your 
quarters--though you must refrain from training for a few days."
Lannon's teacher, Garrin Daggerblood, entered the chamber and smiled down at 
Lannon. It was a forced smile, however. Garrin dismissed the White Knight with a 
wave. "And how are you feeling, my young friend?"
Garrin had been cold to Lannon lately--ever since Lannon and his friends had 
broken the Sacred Laws of Dremlock and were nearly expelled from the Kingdom. 
Garrin had also recently been promoted to the rank of Lord of the Blue Knights, when 
Carn Pureheart had retired unexpectedly. However, he had not yet been voted onto the 
High Council, and rumors spoke of him being highly disgruntled over that fact.
"Not so good," said Lannon, "all things considered."
Garrin nodded, the smile vanishing. "Quite a terrible turn of events. One thing is 
certain--the man who injured the Tower Masters was an amazingly powerful foe. 
Either that, or he knew well their weaknesses."
Garrin's gaze burned into Lannon, and Lannon looked away. Lannon could feel 
suspicion emanating from the Blue Knight--and perhaps blame as well. It was 
painfully obvious that Garrin Daggerblood just didn't like Lannon and already 
considered Lannon a lost cause.
"The High Council has voted to call in a failed Knight to save us all," said Garrin. 
"A failed Knight, of all things. And one we thought was dead. Well, it turns out he not 
only isn't dead, but he's an expert on magical relics--so it is said. Indeed, it seems he 
has found a way to extend his life by use of forbidden sorcery."
"What failed Knight are you talking about?" said Lannon.
Garrin held up two books for Lannon to see. They were The Truth about Goblins 
and Tales of Kuran Darkender by Jace Lancelord, ancient books that Lannon's father 
had bought for him. "Jace Lancelord," said Garrin, shaking his head in disgust. "A 
failed, expelled Knight and one who employs forbidden sorcery. He will do what you 
could not."
 Lannon snatched the books from Garrin's hand. "Did you get those from my 
room, Master Garrin?"
Garrin shrugged, his lip curling into a sneer. "So what if I did? I am a highly 
ranked Knight. I have the right to take what I want. You, as a Squire, have no rights. 
Do you take issue with my actions?"
Lannon shook his head. "No, Master Garrin."
Garrin leaned forward until his bearded face was close to Lannon's. "So, as I said, 
Jace Lancelord is coming to save Dremlock--even though I voiced strong opposition 
to it. What do you think of that? The author of your favorite books, still alive when he 
should be dead--now playing the role of Dremlock's savior."
Lannon wasn't sure what to think. Though he loved the books Jace Lancelord had 
written, he had no idea what kind of man he was. And Lannon wasn't in the frame of 
mind to get excited over much of anything.
"This sort of thing is not uncommon," said Garrin. "Outsiders being called upon 
to serve Dremlock--even lowly Rangers now and then." He grimaced in disgust. "It 
happens all the time, sadly. But what a coincidence that this Jace Lancelord happens 
to be your favorite author. Don't you think?"
Lannon shrugged, completely baffled. "What are you trying to suggest, Master 
Garrin? It's mere coincidence. I don't know anything about the man. My father gave 
me those books when I was a child, and that's all there is to it. I had no other books. 
So I guess that's why he's my favorite author. And haven't other Knights written 
books? I see a lot of authors in the Library with Knightly last names."
"Perhaps," said Garrin. "But here you are, with those books--and then suddenly 
Jace Lancelord turns up alive and well. Oh, and he's coming to Dremlock to save us. 
Quite an amazing coincidence."
"Not really," said Lannon, deeply puzzled.
"Yes, really," said Garrin.
Lannon sighed and decided to keep quiet. Garrin's behavior was nothing new. 
Garrin had been growing ever more suspicious of Lannon, Vorden, and Timlin over 
the weeks, and sometimes his hinted accusations were so bizarre it was difficult to 
figure out what he was trying to say. He wished Garrin would go away.
"How will this Jace fellow help Dremlock?" asked Lannon, trying to steer the 
conversation toward something rational.
"As I said," Garrin explained, "Jace Lancelord is an expert on magical weapons 
and relics. Like the demon man's big metal gauntlet that nearly killed you. Like the 
demon man's big metal gauntlet that burned half of Taris' handsome Birlote face and 
crushed Furlus' fat Dwarven leg. Am I making sense here?"
Barely, Lannon thought, wondering if Garrin was simply going insane. Garrin's 
paranoia seemed to be growing worse every time Lannon saw him.
"Oh, and you'll be working with old Jace on the mystery," said Garrin, with a 
chuckle. "The bearer of the Eye of Divinity and his favorite author, working hard to 
save Dremlock. I'm guessing you're excited at the prospect."
On the contrary, Lannon wasn't looking forward to it at all. He wanted to retreat 
to his room and hide. He dreaded the thought of encountering the demon man again, 
especially without Taris to protect him.
"Just know this, boy," said Garrin, his eyes narrowing and shining with malice. 
He tapped his forehead, "I'm watching your every move."
Lannon gave a half nod, unsure of how to react.
Garrin straightened his back and adjusted his cloak. "All training shall be 
postponed until the issue with the demon man is settled. And that goes for Vorden and 
Timlin as well, since I'm sure they will be assisting you. If you have any questions for 
me, you know where to find me--though I suspect your training as a Blue Squire will 
not be nearly as important as the Eye of Divinity in this matter. Now, if there is 
nothing else you want to ask me, Furlus Goblincrusher has requested that you visit 
him in his room. Are you able to stand?"
Lannon gave it a try, and his legs sagged beneath him. Grunting, Garrin helped 
Lannon stand up straight.
"You'll find your legs soon enough," said Garrin. "I wish I could say the same for 
old Furlus. His walking days may be finished."
***
After a few steps, Lannon found his balance, and soon he stood by Furlus' 
bedside. Garrin excused himself, leaving the two of them alone. Furlus' left leg was 
heavily bandaged and his forehead dripped sweat. His face was tense with obvious 
pain that Lannon couldn't imagine.
Furlus seized Lannon's arm. "How are you, lad?"
"I'm fine," said Lannon, his gaze straying again to Furlus' injured leg. Furlus had 
always seemed invincible, a Dwarven wall of muscle and power that nothing could 
breech. Now he looked old and helpless, his great bulk something to only weigh him 
down. Lannon hated what he saw and wished he could help.
"I've seen better days myself," said Furlus. "And so has old Taris. Poor fellow 
had half of his face burned into ruin."
Lannon swallowed hard and could think of nothing to say.
"I called you in here to warn you," said Furlus. "I fear that Dremlock is..." His 
eyes settled shut and then popped open. "I fear that Dremlock is doomed. No one can 
be trusted anymore, not even your closest friends."
"I'll keep that in mind," Lannon mumbled, his heart full of pity for the Tower 
Master. "Just try to rest and heal up."
"No one should waste time worrying about me," Furlus grunted, looking 
annoyed. "I'm talking about you, Lannon! You may be Dremlock's only hope. Only 
the Eye of Divinity can see through the wall of shadows that conceals the plans of our 
enemies. Cordus and Taris didn't want to burden you with the truth. But it's time for 
you to understand just how important you are. The Knights of Dremlock are running 
out of options and resources. So we...we..." His eyes slipped shut again beneath his 
drooping brows.
"Rest up," Lannon whispered, and he started to turn away.
But Furlus' hand again tightened around Lannon's arm, and the Tower Master 
opened his eyes. "The medicine has made me tired, but I'm not finished yet. I want to 
say that I no longer think the Knights can protect you--not when two Tower Masters 
are crushed with ease. You nearly were killed down there in the Deep Forge. It took 
everything Taris had to save you."
"Then what can I do?" said Lannon, panic rising within him.
"You must learn to think like a Knight," said Furlus. "You've got to thicken your 
skin a bit and take the battle to your foes."
"I don't understand what you mean," said Lannon.
"Indeed," said Furlus, "and therein lies the problem. "You're thinking in 
defensive terms, but a Knight must sometimes go on the attack. Hunt down your 
foes--the foes of Dremlock--and destroy them before they destroy you."
Lannon shuddered at the thought of hunting down the demon man, or Tenneth 
Bard (if the Black Knight still lived). "Where do I even begin, Furlus? I'm still just a 
Squire who has to obey the rules."
"I don't know where you begin," said Furlus, shaking his head "and now that I'm 
bedridden I cannot help you. I'm certain I will heal from this, but it will take awhile. 
Regardless, you have to decide for yourself. But I feel very strongly about one thing--
if you simply try to hide from your enemies, eventually they will find you and kill 
you. You must go to them and make them hide from you. And even then, hope may be 
slim at best."
Lannon sighed. "I'll do what I can, Master Furlus."
"And one more thing," said Furlus. "Don't..." His eyes settled closed. "Don't 
worry about anything but..." He broke into snores.
Lannon turned away, put his face in his hands, and groaned. Everything was 
falling apart, and his life was in grave danger. Lannon had never felt as terrified, 
alone, and as miserable in his entire life as he did now.  His future seemed lost in 
darkness, his dream of being a great Knight in a shining kingdom soured into 
unrecognizable swill.
"Why did I ever come here?" Lannon said aloud.
"Let me guess," came a cheerful reply. "The rice pudding?"
"What?" Lannon lowered his hands and opened his eyes. Before him stood a tall 
man--nearly seven feet in height--dressed in an extravagant, purple cloak with gold 
trim. He was clean shaven, with a smooth, youthful face and a curly black hair. His 
grey eyes twinkled with amusement as he puffed at a pipe.
"What?" Lannon said again.
"The rice pudding," said the stranger. "You asked why you came here, and that 
was my answer. Who doesn't love the rice pudding at Dremlock?"
Lannon was at a loss for words.
The stranger extended his hand. "Jace Lancelord."
End of preview. 
Knights: The Hand of Tharnin (full version) is currently
 available for purchase.
Keep track of new releases:
Sign up for Robert E. Keller's publication newsletter. 
Your email will not be shared, and you will only receive a notice whenever a new 
book is published.
