
An Exiled Knight and the 3rd Princess, 
A terrible combo
Volume I
Prologue – The Savagers 
The Algard Empire’s Capital Place. In the courtyard. The 
scenario was something like this  
 A young man about in his 17s 
Was found kneeling on the floor with two guards casting 
their swords on to his head and He was wearing an armour 
of the Algard Kingdom, He had brown coloured hair. He 
gave a weird feeling of unhappiness, to full-fill that he was 
tied with mana absorbing chains, which were held up the 2 
soldiers who had their swords on his neck. He was 
surrounded by 2 parallel lines of men, mainly consisting of 
nobles and higher military general of the Algard Kingdom. In 
th
front of him, was the 14  King of the Algard Empire, his 
Majesty the King ‘Flourus von re Algard ‘
“Rayce Welford of the eastern border, as an act of treason 
you are here exiled from the Empire of Algard and your 
arms will be taken by the Empire” A officer from the royal 
court of Algard
“Furthermore, your titles and properties would be taken 
away by the Empire and given out the Nobles” The 
properties of Rayce Welford were slim to none but his titles 
were second to none like ‘The holder of the demonic sword 
of destruction’ or like the ‘ dragon of destruction’ or ‘the 
knight in black and red’, a person’s title determines the 
strength of the power they held, A person’s power varies 
with the difference between there titles. If someone 
acquires someone’s else title, they are directly obligated to 
the person power and strength even thou they aren’t worthy 
of it. In this world getting a good title is the only way to get 
recognized, by taking away Rayce’s title the King ensured 
that there was no way he could ever show his face to 
anyone and giving his title to a nobleman would make the 
person a perfect fit for a royal consort.
“Knight Rayce, Rayce due to the disrespect of the act of 
civil violation who should live a life of an exile and your titles 
will be removed” Rayce heard these words as left the royal 
court. His armour was torn apart beyond recognition by the 
numerous one-sided Knights.  
*
About 10 days ago, The eastern border- 
“Knight Rayce do you really intend to fight, there is just no 
way you could ever fight such a group of this size.” A group 
of almost of 37 soldiers were standing in front of Rayce, 
they were the soldiers which stood beside Rayce when he 
had to fought the invading nation of Glehara   
“I told you that I am the knight in black and red, I will never 
give up at least until I don’t know what to do” Rayce had his 
usual face of an overconfident knight who was facing death. 
He had earned the title ‘The knight in black and red’ by 
sheer hard work, he had to mastered 2 magical elements 
without any formal education and he also learnt a 
swordsmanship befitting a noble which all was done in total 
of 3 years which was as close as the time the hero of light 
took to conquer the demon lord’s domain and establish 
peace with the demon race. Rayce knew that  this was a 
plan made by the Earl Edmar Brice, he had a plan going for 
about 2 weeks which included the submission of Knight 
Rayce as an exiled. He wanted to make the young Knight 
attack the soldiers  of his domain. If a soldier fights with 
another soldier or is killed by one the attendance, the 
audience would be exiled, thou this law is to be broken in-
case of self-defence, Earl Edmar made it sure that all the 
soldiers  s under Knight Rayce were given about 10 gold 
coins to transcribe their words. 
The currency used in the Empire of Algard is Altus where 
10 Altus = 1 copper coin, 10 copper coins = 1 silver coin, 10 
silver coins = 1 gold coin and 10 gold coins = 1 Algard coin 
and 10 Algard coins = 1 Shattonie coin. A Shattonie coin 
also known as the world coin it prize remains the same 
everywhere you go in this world. As Algard is the biggest 
and the most powerful nation now its second currency the 
Imperial coin or the Algard coin, its value changes with 
accordance to the place. To put it simply 1 Altus = 1 Dollar 
so then I gold coin is equal about 1000$ so Earl Edmar 
gave the soldiers  s of Rayce about 10,000$ which were 
used to bend them according to his will. 
“Let the Flames of hell Burn through my blade” A purple 
flame fire covered Rayce’s sword as he rushed towards the 
soldiers. 
“You…… are just weak pathetic humans, who won’t give a 
shit to loyalty” As Rayce started saying these words his 
body stared to shape shift into a very distinct looking 
humanoid dragon. His body was covered by dragon scales 
with a blue hue, one sharp pointed tooth stuck out from his 
lower right side of the jaw, his brown eyes turned into a 
bright golden colour a small horn came arising from the 
midpoint of his nose. As he touched his sword the sword 
turned purple and darker as he grabbed it from its 
scabbard, his arms which were the only part which looked 
like that of a human now had transform into that of a 
dragonborn.  
“I will say this last time, come back with us Rayce obey him, 
accept your fate” The man leading the army of soldiers 
yelled at Rayce. He had his sword drawn out indicating that 
he would order a forward march on Rayce at any point of 
view if he disagrees.
“Looks like you will need to try something else to draw me 
out” Rayce gave a huge glare towards the man in-charge. 
This made cleared that Rayce had totally declined the 
proposal of the opposition. He knew that he had no chances 
of winning thou Rayce was one of the most powerful 
Knights of all time still there was no way he could ever take 
all of them at once. The men who were send after Rayce 
were the Holy Imperial Knights (now at least) all he could do 
was try to not die. And that was how the Knight Rayce 
Welford was brought to the court of Algard and then later 
Exiled.   
*
The Royal conference hall 15 days ago 
The King seated himself at the head of the table which was 
followed by the seating of his council and the ministers of 
the state along with some good and absolute trustworthy 
nobles. “Are the Preparations been met” The King spoke in 
a loud voice indicating every one that their seat was at 
stake. “Your excellences here is the list of the attendees 
you wanted, those whose magical power level ranks 
beyond the A rank” As one of the council members passed 
a booklet towards the King which he grabbed as soon as it 
reached his hands. “We would really love if we were briefed 
about the reason why we are called here today in the 
meeting of the council” A group of the nobles spoke up to 
the King hoping to get a good and reasonable answer as 
now they were in the danger of losing their title as nobles. 
“Oh, looks like I didn’t even tell you about it” The King 
nodded towards the council “Carlos could you just do the 
work for me”
“As you all know the battle against the Uralia Empire has 
ended as well as the conquest of the demon lord, so 
therefore there is no need of the knights who are stronger 
than an A rank adventure. Thus, our Empire is the power 
source of the entire world. This is a big achievement for our 
Empire but at the same it is in a difficult state to keep. On 
research there is a possibility that the Empire will fall in the 
next 25 years with rise in power of the Knights and the 
military generals.” As one of the council members 
concluded his thoughts about what he was ordered, The 
Earl Edmar opened this loud mouth and started to speak. 
“So, what do you want us to do now” Looking at the 
ministers and the King at the same time, “If you really want 
us to surrender our armies towards you, your excellence, 
you know it’s an impossible order to follow.” A member from 
the council followed “Earl Edmar, we don’t want you to 
surrender your or anyone’s army, we just want to get rid of 
every Knight who is stronger or ranks above the Standard 
A rank of Adventures Guild” The King wanted to get rid of 
all these Knights or military generals only because he had a 
feeling that ones with power might revolt  the system and 
ultimately take down the Empire.
And so almost entirety of the Empire’s Knights (above A 
rank) were taken down. Knights who were taken out were 
came to be known as the Savagers. They were exiled from 
the Kingdom of Algard and were charged almost 10 times 
the normal tax rate if they wanted to keep living in the 
Kingdom. Many of the Savagers were also targeted by 
bounty hunters, thou bounty hunting is illegal in Algard it 
was permitted for the bounty of Savagers. People hated the 
Savagers as the Pope had named them the enemy of God. 
But leaving that Savagers are still consider as a member of 
the society thou only some people treat them equally, 
before getting Exiled each and every Savagers had the 
spell of Eneefled casted upon them. Eneefled a SS rank holy 
magic spell a spell which is even difficult for an S rank 
adventurer, it forces the target to abandoned over 50% of their 
total magic power which means each and every Knight who 
was above or an A rank now would be somewhere between D 
to C rank. Getting rid of their Titles and now that of their 50% 
power they were expected to perish, but their 1000 hours of 
training didn’t go to waste they were easily able to live a 
stealthy and a slow life among the commoners who treated 
them equally and fairly. A group of knights known as the 
Creation Knights were loyal to the King and the council as well 
as to the nobles, they were all somewhere near the S rank 
boarder leaving them, every one of the Knights were forced to 
get rid of their power and titles. The Job of the Creation Knights 
was to ensure peace and freedom of the Kingdom. They were 
given the title of a noble and were feed properly and had 
constant power checks along with over 100 spies on them. 
Their only job was to look after the security of the kingdom and 
maintain national law.          
