
Raising Dead
Published on Smashwords by Aaron Dennis on May of 2013
Visit StoriesbyDennis.com for more stories
New edition November of 2016
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, scanned or distributed in any 
form, including digital and electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, 
or by any information storage and retrieval system, without the prior written consent of 
the Publisher, except for brief quotes for use in reviews.
This book is a work of fiction. Characters, names, places and incidents either are the 
product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to any 
actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.
I heard a story, once…it was about a powerful magician of sorts. He had 
obtained the power of creation, and as such, decided to craft creatures in his likeness, 
but because his was a power born of Earth, those creatures, which looked human 
enough, were impervious to fires. 
Truth, it was an odd story, but there is more, you see…. Those creatures often 
found themselves in the midst of flames for one reason or another. This led to them to the 
discovery that they were unnatural. Inevitably, they returned to their master asking why 
it was that such an oddity was prevalent.
“Because I have created you. You are not human.” Such were his responses, and 
more often than not, those creatures went mad from learning the truth…hmph, truth.
It is has always been about truth, and perhaps it is why I like this story so. Now, 
here’s my favorite part. One day, that powerful magician found himself chased from his 
home, due to awful practices no doubt, and so he set up a camp. While sitting at the 
campfire, a creature, we’ll say it was a wolf. I am partial to wolves…but that is another 
story for another time.
Anyhow, this wolf attacked, and the magician fell into the fire. To his dismay, it 
did not burn. You see…he, too, had been created, but by whom? He had no way to learn 
such.
Why do I like this story? I like truth. It never plays out the way we expect. It is not 
a pure light. It is not epiphany. No, my, no. 
Often, truth is a dark and murky thing; a veil of sorts, which we must learn to 
wield in ways proper to the culmination of our very own and personal life experiences.
What is my truth? Well, let’s say…death is not the end, and leave it at that.
He calls himself a necromancer
Gaulder ran across the valley of ash enroute to Cormaire’s lair. T’was valley was 
rife with death. Ancient bones, or cinders thereof, remained strewn about the gnarled and 
blackened trees. Puffs of ash kicked up behind the man’s wake.
Cormaire, the necromancer—as he called himself due to his practices involving 
unlife—hid away deep in the valley of ash. His lair, a cave beneath the putrid land, was 
denoted by a wicked entrance. The cave mouth was carved from a lone stone, which 
stood near the center of the valley; a stone chiseled to resemble a disfigured and pear-
shaped head. Rows of teeth lined the maws of the head—the actual entry.
Ducking his head to enter, Gaulder clutched a bundle of gray cloths; an item 
master Cormaire required to create a revenant was ensconced within. Being an apprentice 
meant being a liaison of sorts, and because Cormaire was unable to travel into town—it 
was an unworthy risk to his life—Gaulder ran errands in exchange for knowledge.
The young man in tattered, dark clothing worked his way through the labyrinth of 
stone corridors. Each hallway was alighted by torches perched in sconces. Eternally, they 
burned. Finally spilling into the sepulcher, the apprentice spotted the bent, aging 
necromancer pulling entrails from a recently deceased.
“Master,” Gaulder called.
“Mm?” Cormaire mumbled without giving his attention.
Instead he dumped the viscera into a bronze bucket.
“It was no mean feat, but…I have it,” Gaulder announced with a smile.
“Yes. Bring it into the light.”
Gaulder swallowed hard. The master was neither pleasant to work with, nor look 
upon. Mostly, the man was covered in dark robes. Even with the hood pulled low over his 
face, the wizard exuded power, and a foul odor. Gaulder approached the stone worktable 
where the dead subject lay with chest cavity open.
“Here,” Gaulder whispered, placing the bundle adjacent the body.
Cormaire waved his apprentice off before unwrapping the bundle. Amidst the 
gray cloths was a polished piece of amber the size of a child’s fist. Encased within was a 
dried, angel trumpet flower.
“It was not easy to obtain.”
“Powerful items seldom are.”
“How, how does it work?”
The old man walked around the worktable. A plethora of ancient tomes sat on 
rotting shelves behind him. Candlelight flickered. Cormaire drew back his hood revealing 
deep wrinkles. He smiled like a Cheshire cat; his teeth surprisingly clean. The apprentice 
shuddered.
“Revenants, my boy, are particularly difficult to raise,” Cormaire explained. 
“Firstly, the body must have perished from unnatural causes, and the bloodier the better. 
Next, as you just saw, the entrails, gallbladder, and bladder must be removed. Then, the 
cavity is stuffed with chaff bound in burlap…this is to keep the body dry.
“Now, we prefer as little trauma to the brain as possible, lest our raised be a 
simpleton. Furthermore, I prefer to add multiple adrenal glands. These can be obtained 
from any dead person, so long as they are not overly decayed. Splicing the glands into the 
body is a rather simple task, and it provides our revenant with boundless strength and 
endurance.
“Finally, the dried flower encased in amber is used to tie the deceased’s spiritual 
nature to the aether; the…between, if you will. If this is not done, a revenant will be 
unable to follow the orders of the necromancer–”
Gaulder made the mistake of interrupting by saying, “But, master, the others 
didn’t require–”
The master’s eyes turned fierce. A furrow creased his brow, and his jowls sank at 
the corners. The dread immediately filled Gaulder’s heart. He looked away.
“Are you finished trying to tell your master what you think is correct?” Cormaire 
hissed.
Gaulder nodded emphatically. The necromancer’s demeanor relaxed, and he 
continued his lesson.
“Revenants are refined creatures. They are unlike the boorish zombies, or ghouls, 
which any inexperienced Necromancer can raise. Revenants need a connecting link 
between the world of the living, and the world of the dead.”
“What purpose do they serve?”
“Ah,” Cormaire nodded, approvingly. “A most intelligent question. Revenants 
nearly pass for the living. With the proper series of incantations, this…young thief, here, 
can certainly be mistaken for a drunken ne’er-do-well.”
“And what will you have him do for you?”
Cormaire grinned again.
Stealing immortality
The necromancer worked tirelessly over the corpse. Having recently implanted 
new adrenal glands, and stuffed the body with chaff, the only remaining aspect of the 
physical changes was the addition of the angel trumpet. Gaulder kept his eyes on the 
entirety of the proceedings. For the most part, Cormaire gave few, verbal instructions.
“Man’s connecting link is an unseen force,” the wizard started. “It protrudes from 
the abdomen; four fingers’ length down from the navel to be exact. This force is what we 
all use to read the world around us, and as such, the angel trumpet is placed there.”
Gaulder maintained a focused gaze on the master. “What do you mean by read the 
world?”
“The universe is magic…all of it. The physical body, too. Magic is a delicate 
force, not in that it can be destroyed. No, my, no. It can yet be disrupted. Altering natural 
flows leads to unnatural consequences.”
“Like bringing the dead to life?”
“Aye.”
Cormaire gingerly slid the amber containing the flower amidst the burlap sacks 
containing chaff. Then, he removed the chest retractors from the corpse. After that, he 
went about reconstituting the ribs and sternum. To reform the bones, he created bone 
meal in a mixing bowl. The whole formula consisted of powdered, bovine femurs, 
pinesap, and human blood.
The necromancer placed the bone meal at every severed juncture by way of a 
round tipped horsehair brush. Then, he meticulously wrapped thin, copper wire around 
every area to hold the bones in place. Suddenly, he left the sepulcher through a back door 
behind the rotting bookshelves. Gaulder remained in thought while looking over the 
corpse.
I hope this is worth it. Certainly, this place is a wealth of knowledge, but what 
good is all this knowledge if it does not yield power? Furthermore, what good is power if 
it leaves one in such a state as Cormaire? He is alone, feared, hunted, and quite 
obviously, in fear of the world around him.
His were the mental ponderings of a man with little to lose. Gaulder was only 
twenty-four, but had little use for a normal life. His parents died while he was a boy, and 
he had no other family. What was I supposed to do, become a thief? It didn’t serve this 
man well. He hanged for stealing a belt. Soon, he will serve master Cormaire as a 
creature of the night. I can’t help but think of that story…the man who turned out to be 
nothing more than a creation….
His thoughts trailed away, yet he kept his gaze on the corpse. Candlelight cast 
dancing shadows from the remnants of bones and other tools in the cavernous room. As 
hours passed, and the bone meal dried, Gaulder busied himself with pouring over the 
arcane texts. It was rare to ever see Cormaire doing the same. How old is he now? Two-
hundred something…?
The texts revealed little of which Gaulder did not already know. Mostly, they 
provided detailed rituals for healing. Cormaire simply applied the practices in a 
contradictory way.  If one knows how to heal, he knows how to damage. Other texts held 
incantations for menial magics such as casting spells of fire, or spells which reveal 
peoples’ tracks. Useful for a man of normality, but I am seeking much more than that.
He had not noticed Cormaire’s return. The old man stitched the corpse’s skin back 
together with cat intestines.
“Come here, boy,” the wizard demanded. Gaulder shut the tome and placed it 
back on the shelf before approaching. “Listen to my words, and know them.”
He was never one for repeating himself. “Oh, darkest of rituals….” Then, he 
paused for a moment, his open hands raised on high. “Let it be known there is no final 
resting place. Grave servitude is what I demand.”
The area around Cormaire’s form started to darken. “Take into your form this air. 
It is not wind, but the breath of life; my breath.”
Gaulder cocked his head to the side. For the first time ever, as he had witnessed 
raisings before, he noted an ephemeral tendril slowly emerge from the deceased’s 
abdomen, the place where the flower rested. It gave a subtle, indigo glow. During 
Cormaire’s pause in the incantation, and while the tendril continued to emerge, another 
tendril—one from the necromancer—came forth. It was black as night.
“What was yours to command is now mine—your life, your thoughts, your 
needs.” Still, the space surrounding Cormaire grew darker. It was as though the darkness 
was consuming him. Gaulder scarcely saw his master anymore. He was little more than a 
gritty voice. “Facets of life. Mere reflections of the soul are mine to manipulate. Rise. 
Rise. Rise! I command it!”
At the climax of the spell, the body on the table stirred. Cormaire grew silent, and 
the darkness diminished. Both men’s tendrils returned to their bodies.
“Stand, revenant,” Cormaire demanded. The man came to his feet. “Gaulder?”
“Sir?”
“Did you see it?”
“The connecting link?”
“Naturally,” Cormaire replied.
“I did, Sir. I thought they were going to touch, but….”
“Nonsense. I could not possibly affect his connecting link with mine. I can, 
however, affect the world with my link in a manner which causes the world to affect his 
link.”
“Perplexing,” Gaulder commented. Cormaire shrugged with indifference. “Now, 
you send this monster to secure the life stone from Etmire Abbey?”
“Certainly. He is ready.”
“If I may, master,” Gaulder pried. “I fail to see the need in sending one undead 
thief to steal what can be taken by force with a legion of lesser zombies.”
“Revenant,” Cormaire called, momentarily ignoring his apprentice. “You will 
look into my memory and know this location.”
The old man walked to his creation, placed hands on his face, and brought his 
eyes close to the monster’s. They looked into each other’s eyes for a moment.
“Do you see it?” The monster nodded. “Now, you will look into my memory and 
see the item I require. Do you see it?” Again, the monster nodded. “You will utilize your 
experience as a thief and recover this jewel. Though you were weak and slow as a man, 
you are quick and strong as a monster. Go!”
The revenant groaned and darted out of the sepulcher like a mountain cat. Gaulder 
remained staring at his master, knowing full well that, in time, an answer to his question 
was coming. Finally, Cormaire turned to him.
“It does not do well to bring down a wall to smash a gnat. Subtlety, my boy.”
“I don’t understand,” Gaulder complained. “I wish to…but what good is all this 
power, and what good is immortality, if you are to remain in this dreadful place?”
Cormaire nodded slowly for a moment. He drew back his hood, sat down on a 
wooden chair, and looked up at the ceiling. Gaulder was slightly nonplussed and cocked a 
brow.
“It is often I ask myself such simple questions,” the wizard answered. “Working 
with unlife is not about power…not as misunderstood by so many, who wish to rule 
kingdoms. It is about control, mastery.
“I started on this path many years ago. I cannot recall a time in which I did not 
wield magic, but raining fire upon nonexistent enemies was never my concern. Mine was 
a quest to unravel the mysteries of life and death.
“What dusty tomes I perused in the great library called Lycaeum provided little 
knowledge, yet we have all—or rather those of us who deal in magic—have all come 
across a zombie or two, so I ventured off in search of necromancers. As you no doubt 
have found out yourself, it is difficult to track one down. I found an old man by following 
a ghoul back to his lair.
“This old man, his name was Baulder, was in need of an apprentice, a liaison, if 
you will, into the common world. Over time, many necromancers are hunted down and 
slain by stalwart warriors or priests who claim to aid the forces of good, but what is good, 
really?
“I recall asking Baulder why he worked alone. Because a den of necromancers 
exudes too much power, and whole townships will unite to slaughter them. That is what 
he told me, and that is what you need to know. Certainly, working closely with a 
necromancer has its benefits; raising many undead without the constriction of time, but 
then those items required in doing so are quickly depleted.
“It is simply safer to work alone. We are often calloused individuals anyway. 
Most of us prefer the company of our creations. Necromancers, in general, do not strive 
for power, but control over our own destiny.”
Gaulder scrutinized his master in reverie. “Is this why you seek immortality?”
“In part, yes,” Cormaire replied. “At its core, mine is a desire to create the perfect 
rendition of man; an undead who is not dead…a simulacrum, like the wizard in my 
favorite story. As it stands, these creatures I have made do not question the world around 
them. They have no recollection of lives past, or concerns of the future.
“Gaulder, my boy, what has brought this line of questions?”
The apprentice smiled, shrewdly. “I’m an orphan. All of my family has been 
slain. I have witnessed nothing but death and despair my whole life, yet there is a legacy 
from ages past. By sitting in darkened corners, and listening to those who are unaware of 
my presence, I have come to learn that my own family was comprised of great 
necromancers. There is nothing else for me to do with my life.”
“Yes,” Cormaire whispered.
“Tell me more of this simulacrum.”
“Clean up this mess, and I will tell you.”
Gaulder nodded before busying himself with sopping up blood. While he grabbed 
a bucket with clean water and some cloths, the master related his knowledge of creation.
“The simulacrum is a living being, though composed of pieces of the dead. His 
heart beats, his mind ponders, and his connecting link with the universe allows him to 
bend the forces of intent to his will as does that of the living. Moreover, this creature can 
be altered time and again in any fashion.
“A powerful necromancer can provide his simulacrum with additional organs, 
limbs, inhuman appendages, and anything else imaginable. The problem lays in the very 
essence of living. To clarify; an undead has no soul. It is dead, yet the body remains 
functioning because of the creator’s will and magic. Given enough time, any zombie will 
rot away. Even my revenant will eventually fall to pieces. 
“The simulacrum wields regenerative properties. It is unclear whether it ages, or 
eventually dies from such, but if a living man can attain immortality, why not the 
simulacrum?”
Gaulder wrung out bloody water from his rag before scrubbing down the stone 
worktable. “This is simply about pushing the limitations on man then?”
“Yes,” Cormaire hissed. “I must discover this process, and I must perfect it.”
“To what end?”
Cormaire leaned over in his chair, and rubbed the back of his head. “I cannot 
answer that. It is an ache in my very soul. I simply must do this.”
Gaulder stood still. The wavering candlelight continued casting fiendish shadows 
about the dark lair.
“Have others achieved immortality?” 
“Naturally,” Cormaire replied.
“Where are they? Have you met them?”
Cormaire turned to glare at the apprentice. “No, but it does not do you well to 
question my judgment.”
“Apologies,” Gaulder said. “That was not my intent, master. I am but eager to 
learn.”
“That is enough for now. When the revenant returns with the life stone, we will 
speak more.”
A truth revealed
The revenant returned to the sepulcher in a poor state. Missing an arm, and with 
rotting face, it stood almost ready to keel over. In its remaining hand was an 
unremarkable, gray stone.
“Give it,” Cormaire demanded. The beast ambled over and relinquished the stone. 
Cormaire’s grin shown from under the edge of his hood. “Now, go consume flesh.”
The revenant groaned and left the lair. Gaulder arched a brow while watching the 
proceedings. Cormaire brought the stone near candlelight.
“I had expected some kind of shiny bauble,” the apprentice commented.
“The life stone is named so because it is a piece of the old world; a time before 
man. When the Gods walked the Earth, they did as they pleased, thus altering the world 
around them. They created oceans, and mountains, and creatures. It is said that one God 
grew tired of the company of his brothers, and strove to create life as he saw fit. To do so, 
he crafted a magic stone from his own heart.
“It is just a story, but there is always some truth. This…this stone will most 
certainly do.”
After finishing his recounting, Cormaire placed the life stone on the worktable. 
“Now, the incantation,” he said, gazing at the stone. “It is the one I learned from 
Baulder.”
“Your master knew how to achieve immortality?”
“He knew the spell, but lacked the location of the stone of life. His final 
instructions to me were to find it. I have spent many years in search…all for this very 
moment.”
“I can’t wait to see what happens,” Gaulder remarked, facetiously.
Cormaire furrowed his brow at the apprentice, who only smiled in return. “Will of 
God,” the wizard started with hands raised high. “The will of man.” He paused to close 
his eyes and breathed deeply. “I call upon the forces of eternity. Time, the immaterial, 
and abstract, invade my presence.”
Gaulder stared at the stone. Nothing of note occurred.
“Place the everlasting in my temporary vessel. Let it never come to pass that this 
body will age. Let it never come to pass that this body will waste away.” A moment of 
silence persisted. Still, nothing happened. “Hm?” Cormaire wondered, aloud. He looked 
to his grinning apprentice. “You mock me?”
“Master….”
“What?” Cormaire grumbled, letting his arms fall to his side.
“Did you know Baulder had a son?”
“What are you babbling about?” the master yelled as he approached Gaulder.
“Yes…you were not his apprentice.”
The muscles in the old man’s face twitched with rage. “Explain yourself!”
“Baulder was father to Thaulder, and he, a father to Raulder…I was Gaulder, after 
Baulder’s father, the first necromancer in my family history,” the young man revealed.
Cormaire simply stood there, unable to utter a word, so Gaulder raised his left 
hand waist high and manifested a glowing ball of fire from his fingers. He flung the 
magic at Cormaire. When it impacted, nothing happened.
“You were born of Earth,” Gaulder said, calmly.
Cormaire looked at his form; it was one impervious to fire. Then, he looked at 
Gaulder, and for the first time, noted the family resemblance.
“You are the first simulacrum ever created. I was charged to find my family’s 
creation and see to it that no harm would come upon it.”
“I-I,” Cormaire stammered.
“Do you have recollection of your childhood?”
The necromancer remained silent for a moment then he whispered, “No.”
“Do you recall a time when Baulder was not present?”
“O-only following the ghoul.”
“In your time away from your master, you set the entirety of your life upon his 
goal. This was no…how did you put it? Ah, yes, an ache in your soul. This was your 
mission, and mine is to perpetuate my family’s goal—to walk the Earth as Gods among 
men.”
When he finished speaking, Cormaire dropped to his knees, and stared at his 
hands. Gaulder approached the worktable and reiterated the incantation of immortality. 
With each segment of the spell finished, the stone glowed brighter and brighter blue. 
With the culmination of the spell, the stone’s light surrounded the young man before 
invading his body through the eyes. When he turned to face Cormaire, Gaulder’s eyes 
shone bright blue.
“I am Gaulder, and now nothing will stop me from ruling this world.”
He stood over his former master with clenched fists. Cormaire bowed his head 
humbly, finally realizing he had been chasing himself.
Visit StoriesbyDennis.com for more grim tales
