A courtyard of fine stone, set in large slabs across a perfectly flat ground.
Around three of its edges was wrapped a great hall, two stories high and topped
with a slanted tile roof. Its stone was carved just as finely, if not smoother than the
slabs. Yet it’s colour was much deeper, and set within it were many small windows,
panes split by delicate strands of woodwork. Against the furthest edge of the
square courtyard was a castle. A small yet striking stronghold, it’s stonework craggy
and much rougher than all that which lay around it. The castle was old and worn,
yet still looked sturdy and hardened. It towered above the square, two great
blackened turrets sat like billowing smoke plumes either side of a lofty gatehouse
topped with ramparts.
The two turrets were connected to the great hall on either side by arches that
ran over two corners of the courtyard. Their tunnels led out into much larger fortress
the square was set around. The tunnels were the only way in, or out.
On a summer’s day, the courtyard was quite beautiful. Ivy crept from the cracks
in the castle’s foundations up its ageing form, as flowers sat on window ledges of
the hall brightening the grey stone scene. Today though, darkness clutched the
overcast sky and heavy rain battered the ground, deepening the already dark
colours and casting an unyieldingly ominous shadow over the expanse. The smell
of the downpour permeated the air, hugging the nostrils and damping the spirits. To
march around in thick leather and heavy chainmail, all clasped together with a thick
steel breastplate and a latched plate girdle was one thing on a dry day, but in the
harsh rain, every step was slower and harder. The last thing you wanted on a day
like today. Farrow wished for the summer sun. Wished to see this courtyard in its
beautiful state one more time, but he knew he never would. In that moment, he was
reminded why.
A crack, unlike anything he’d heard before, struck the air like lightning and sent
him recoiling backwards. His movement was a stroke of luck, as he narrowly
avoided being crushed by chunks of falling stone, large as a man, that had been
torn from one of the turrets above and sent hurtling towards the ground, slamming
into the pristine courtyard stone and splitting its smooth surface. He looked up in
time to see the culprit swoop around for the other tower.
A bird, a massive bird, its wingspan so large it may have eclipsed even the
width of the castle itself, dove from above and reached out with enormous black
talons, ripping into the stone of the castle’s battlements and tearing them asunder
with such ease it was akin to a man running his palm through sand. The birds
black, shimmering feathers were jagged, serrated and spun together more like a
thick coat of scales than a soft plume: a stonecrow. As it flew away, sending more
stone tumbling to the ground, this time from the gatehouse, it let out a cruel and
vicious screech. In seconds, the once proud and intimidating stronghold had
become a ruin. Much of its upper ramparts torn away. A bastion of safety turned a
battered and bruised wreck. Farrow marvelled at the damage so swiftly inflicted.
The doors of the castle swung open. Two men, clad in finely gilded armour,
clutching barbed polearms and adorned with golden tabards, streaked out from
behind them before the iron was quickly slammed shut and bolted. They paced
down the stairs leading up to the castle and inspected the damage. Soon, their
eyes fell upon Farrow, who simply gazed back at them.
“What you doing?” One of the men roared through the downpour, pulling off his
helmet as rain pinged loudly off the metal. “Why aren’t you on the wall?”
Just as he spoke, the stonecrow made another pass at the castle, tearing yet
more chunks from its roof, this time lunging at stonework on the other side of the
building. As it took off into the air once more, arrows released from bowmen well
out of sight flew through the air, pinging off its wings like chucked pebbles
ricocheting off a wall.
The three men, alone in the courtyard, watched as the terrifying creature peeled
off and faded into the murk of the low-lying clouds above. Their eyes followed the
dark figure through the sky as its silhouette was occasionally outlined in the lighter
patches of sky. Then, it was gone.
The two men before Farrow, royal guards of the castle, turned on him once
more.
“Well?” The first demanded.
“My mother used to bring me to this courtyard when I was a boy. We’d watch the
jugglers and the tricksters do their magic, and listen to the lutes while women
sang.” Farrow replied calmly, seemingly unaffected by the anger rising on the
guard’s face.
“Have you lost your mind soldier?” He bellowed. “Get back down there and
fight.”
“I used to love it here. The bright flowers.” Farrow continued, paying no attention
to his words. “I just wanted to come back for a fond memory. One last time.”
“You’ll get your wish!” The other guard said, moving in. “Once this is over I’ll
make sure they hang you in this very spot.”
Farrow laughed.
“I haven’t come here because I’m a coward. I’ve come here to die somewhere I
love.”
42
The guards looked at each other and at that moment, the realisation hit them. It
was not Farrow’s words, not even the stonecrow that once again appeared above,
this time doing nothing but making a sickening pass as it glowered over the
courtyard. No. It was the sound of the stampede. Of the boots against the ground
as both tunnelled archways began to fill with men. Soldiers, swords in hand.
Their numbers were but a few, maybe a hundred, maybe less. Thousands had
swarmed the walls and turrets and battlements not thirty minutes ago, so many had
fallen, and most that returned were bloodied and badly wounded. Yet their return
was not victorious either, these men were fleeing, and in their wake paced
creatures of a nightmare. A dozen hounds, maybe more, the size of horses, broad
like lumbermen and teeth gnashing, tore through the stragglers as they barrelled
into the tunnels. Their deep black fur made them almost invisible in the gloom of
the arches, but their clear white eyes shone through. Even if they hadn’t, the
screams would have been reassurance enough that they were there, and getting
closer.
The stonecrow made another pass the courtyard filled with soldiers, pressing
their backs towards Farrow and forming a defensive line in a fruitless attempt to
repel the massive dogs. This time the bird struck the great hall, diving low and
tearing off enormous chunks of stone that cascaded down upon the embattled men,
crushing more than a few. They were being ripped apart from either side. There
was no escape for these men. Tunnels led beneath the castle and out into the wilds
beyond, but as Farrow watched the shimmering gold of the royal guard disappear
behind the gates, he knew that iron plate upon iron plate would be fixed to the
entrance, baring all from a way inside. It wouldn’t take long for the hounds to break
down, nor the stonecrow to rip the entire structure to pieces, but long enough for
those inside to make an escape.
Those out here, in the tormented twilight, would not be so lucky. None would
see dawn.
Farrow etched backwards as one of the mighty hounds broke the swiftly
thinning defensive line with a swipe of its razored paw, all while shredding a solider
between its jaws. With a deep and accepting breath, he turned away from the
chaos. If he could’ve closed out the horrific noise, it would have been a peaceful
scene. Rain simply falling methodically on the empty courtyard floor. Somehow,
through the thick spell of clouds coursing above the square, a streak of sunlight
managed to pierce the haze. It fell upon a window ledge of the hall, and bathed a
patched of drooping flowers sat atop it. Farrow approached, throwing off his steel
gauntlets and reaching his hand out into the warmth of the light. He brushed his
fingertips against the petals. Closing his eyes, and offering a gentle smile, he tried
to sooth his pounding heart and shaking limbs. He took a moment to appreciate his
breath, the feel of the soft flowers on his skin. The warm of the sunlight. But then
the warmth faded. He opened his eyes, the streak of sunlight had gone, the gloom
had returned.
He felt a tug on his shoulder. Then a crunch as his armour concaved. A
pressure welled around his sides. The last he heard was the growl.
