
“The Landlord,” by scifiguy3553.  Smashwords.  Copyright @ 
2017.
What in the world does a millionaire, real estate Millennial of 
New York City have to do with an ancient superstition from the 
Middle East?  And why is that ancient tale intruding on Trevor 
Mesa’s life and one of his long-time tenants?
New York City; Manhattan.  USA.  Present Day…
“…Yes, ma’am…Ye— Yes, ma’am…Ok, I’ll—ma’am, I’ll be over 
as soon as I can…Yes, it’ll be by subway…Ok, I’ll hurry,” Trevor 
said; finally hanging up his smartphone.  He let out a 
discouraged sigh.  “Christ…”  
He had just gotten his falafel-bowl and sat down on a bench 
when one of his long-time tenants had called about a situation 
with her apartment in Harlem.  He was one of New York City’s 
up-and-coming realtors, but Trevor still worked another gig on 
the side by renting several apartments throughout the borough. 
He stuffed the olive oil-laden falafel in his mouth with his plastic 
spoon after gathering his laptop-satchel and Styrofoamed-latte. 
Trevor then made sure his hipster-beard had no crumbs on it 
with a couple of quick strokes with his hands—almost as a dairy 
farmer did with his or her hands while milking a cow!  He then 
headed straight for the nearest subway entry…
nd
132  Street; Harlem.  Anam Shehez’s residence…
Trevor finally made it to his small complex of apartments in 
Harlem that he rented out.  It wasn’t the largest property in the 
neighborhood, but it was one of the most updated complex on 
the block.  He was supposed to be showing a very wealthy, 
potentially new client a loft that Trevor had just renovated 
months ago.  He was relieved that the social media magnate was 
flexible enough to push the show-date to another day.  Trevor 
was one of those Millennials with not only his head on straight, 
but so was his heart.  He had just turned 30 a few months ago, 
and was already a multi-millionaire with his own real estate 
business!  
But to Anam Shehez, she just needed him to be a good landlord 
right now…
“Mrs. Shehez,” Trevor said to her as he reached her location; 
several yards away from the apartments, “may I ask why you’re 
out here?  Was there someone in the apartment after all?”  It was 
approaching dusk and there were several people hustling their 
way to home or the bars after work.
All she did for a while was shake her head repeatedly.  She kept 
her head down before responding.  “Mr. Mesa, I don’t 
understand why a rich man like you won’t get a car!  You could 
have gotten here sooner!”
“Not with New York’s traffic, Mrs. Shehez.  And especially this 
time of day…so, what’s going on?”
Now she looked back, toward the complex; her traditional 
Pakistani dress and trousers colorful in comparison to their 
surroundings.  Trevor looked on with her, but he couldn’t see 
anything worth catching the widow’s attention.  Again, she 
started shaking her head.  “I thought it was him, Mr. Mesa…”
His head went back and forth between the elderly Pakistani and 
the three-storied apartments.  “You mean Mr. Shehez?  Mrs. 
Shehez, I’m sorry but your husband passed away four years 
ago.”
“Yes, I know…I just thought maybe…”  She sighed.  But her head 
never actually stopped shaking.  “Something is not right, Mr. 
Mesa…there is something in there that has the presence of 
Abdel, but clearly is not!”
Trevor took in a deep breath and slowly exhaled.  He looked 
around the neighborhood at all the busy New Yorkers and a few 
tourists.  Mrs. Shehez was almost like an aunt to him.  He knew 
she was very superstitious, but he did not want to come across as 
condescending.  
“I take it calling the cops would’ve been a waste of time,” he 
said; more of a statement than a question.
“Usually they’ll tell you there would have to be something more 
threatening before they send someone over.  Besides, this is 
outside of their expertise…I recorded it with my phone.  Did you 
want to see it?”
Trevor looked at her with surprise.  That should’ve been the first 
thing she showed him before their conversation!  Again, Trevor 
was willing to work with her.  He took a step over to where she 
stood and took her smartphone as she offered it to him.  
Trevor had to take the phone off rest-default before he played 
the short video.  Indeed, in the shot—taken in Mrs. Shehez’s 
small living room—appeared to show a ghostly, moving image of 
some being slowly walking; just passing the wall that led to her 
short hallway, and the apparition was gone!  The recorded video 
footage then began to jostle as Mrs. Shehez quickly walked to the 
area of the hallway where the being was spotted.  The footage 
then showed that she turned around the corner from the living 
room that led to that same hall, and there was a flash…not of 
light, but of some unexpected form that enveloped the video’s 
field of vision!  
But there were no breaks in Mrs. Shehez’s recording.  In the 
video, one could hear her yelp as the dark-flash popped right in 
front of her!  Next was the empty hallway; as its image jerked 
back and forth in the recording while Mrs. Shehez is heard 
crying in the background…then the video ended.
Trevor’s eyes had cut over to Mrs. Shehez; the rest of his body 
unmoving.  She merely looked at the young realtor.  The first 
thing that came to his mind was, whatever it was he saw in the 
video, how was it that it seemed to pass right through her or 
passed her, yet she showed no signs of any injury.  Which, on its 
face, was good news.  
However…
“Mrs. Shehez,” Trevor said after a moment’s thought, “would 
you mind if I were to share this footage with a friend of mine 
who’s well-versed and practiced in…”
“Ghosts?”
He looked at her.  There was a bit of askance to her and Trevor 
felt some pity for the octogenarian.  “I was going to say the 
Paranormal…her name is Jenny.  She’s traveled all over the 
world for studies of the Paranormal and I think she’s just the 
person for this.”
Mrs. Shehez merely nodded; tears beginning to well up in her 
eyes.  She watched as the young man, very deftly, typed a long 
series of commands into her smartphone and then Trevor 
handed the phone back to Mrs. Shehez.  She looked at her 
phone, then back at the young millionaire with strained brows.
“Well, don’t you need my phone to share the recording with 
your friend?”
Trevor, at first, froze.  He had to remind himself that most 
people in their sixties—much less their eighties!—simply don’t 
use social media!  He began to laugh hardily.
“Mrs. Shehez, it’s all done electronically.”
“Oh…I believe I actually understand that, now!”
They both went silent.  Both surveyed the neighborhood as night 
began to darken the sky.  Streetlights were now automatically 
switching on.
“Mrs. Shehez, do you have a relative or friend that you can spend 
the night with tonight?”
She thought for a moment.  She nodded her head.  “One of my 
sons…I did not want to be a bother…he has his own family.  I 
can’t see going back in there, Mr. Mesa!”
“You don’t have to tell me, Mrs. Shehez!  I’m sure your son will 
be more than glad to have you stay over.  Should we call him?”
Mrs. Shehez placed the call to her son.  It was all in Urdu.  After 
she finished her conversation with him—which, of course, 
included the situation she found herself in—she replaced her 
phone back into her pocket and gave a thin smile to Trevor.
They decided to walk over to a nearby diner to wait for her son. 
Trevor bought dinner for Mrs. Shehez and himself.  It would be 
about forty-five minutes before the middle-aged man drove up 
in a nice car—one of those old school, big American luxury 
vehicles.  He got out and met Trevor and his mother outside of 
the diner.  He shook Trevor’s hand and thanked him for taking 
care of his mother, especially since his father had died.  
Fazal Shehez, in simple jeans and a sweatshirt—most likely he 
threw them on in a hurry—insisted that he drive the multi-
millionaire Millennial to his home in the Chelsea area.  But 
Trevor wanted to stay and go into Mrs. Shehez’s apartment and 
check out the situation for himself.  He always carried all his 
properties’ keys with him.  New York City was simply too dense 
to have to turn around and go back home just for a key!
By the time the Shehezs had left for Fazal’s home it was dark 
outside.  Trevor made his way to Mrs. Shehez’s apartment…
When Trevor opened Anam Shehez’s apartment door, the aroma 
of curry wafted passed him.  Tomorrow, he thought to himself, 
he would make it a point to have lunch from any of the 
international restaurants that made curry! 
The apartment was modest and relatively bare; predominately 
styled in the traditions of Pakistan.  Mrs. Shehez was in such a 
hurry she left her flat screen tv on.  To be able to listen for 
anything out of the ordinary, Trevor turned it off with the 
remote.  The stark silence after the flat screen went off was 
almost troubling itself, even with the apartment’s lights on!
Remembering Mrs. Shehez’s recorded video, Trevor took out his 
own smartphone and began recording his inspection.  Later, he 
thought, he would share the video with his Paranormal friend, 
Jenny Housman.  She lived out in Westbrook, Maine; one of the 
suburbs of Portland, Maine.  She had moved there with her 
husband and their two daughters from New York City after her 
husband had gotten a good job offer from a call center firm. 
They were the best of friends since middle school.  Indeed, 
sometimes Trevor wondered if that friendship between the two 
was the real reason why Jenny’s husband sought a job far out 
from New York.  But close enough for the family to travel back to 
the city to see relatives and friends…
Twenty minutes later Trevor had completely inspected Mrs. 
Shehez’s apartment for anything suspicious.  He simply could 
not find anything outside the Normal.  He began to wonder if the 
elderly woman was beginning to suffer from Munchausen. 
Again, it had been four years since her husband’s death…
“Whoa!” he yelped!  It was a call from Jenny.  Her thumbnail-
sized pictured avatar was lit up with all the contact info on 
Trevor’s smartphone!
“Woman, you have impeccable t—“
“Where are you?”
Trevor froze.  “I’m at Mrs. Shehez’s apartment…She went to stay 
over at—“
“Good,” Jenny’s curt, high-pitched voice punctured.  “Now you 
get the hell out of there, Trev…now!”
Of course, he was going to ask why, but he knew that Jenny 
would just insist even harsher.  More to the point, he trusted 
Jenny and knew there had to be a very good reason for her 
demeanor.  
So, Trevor ran straight out of the apartment!  He had the 
presence of mind to lock the front door before slamming it shut 
behind him as he virtually flew out of Mrs. Shehez’s apartment! 
A couple of his other tenants saw him nearly crash into the wall 
opposite of the apartment’s front door in the apartment’s 
hallway!  They both started toward him, but Trevor waved them 
off, graciously.  He lied to them about tripping over one of Mrs. 
Shehez’s rugs as he was walking out of the apartment, after 
doing a welfare check-up on her.  That did the trick, and Trevor 
calmly left the complex and began walking toward the subway 
area.
He called Jenny back.
“Where are you now,” she asked once again.
“I’m heading toward the subway—“
“Please don’t…I’m heading out there, now.  I’m driving out to 
Portland’s airport as we speak, Trev.”
Trevor flinched.  “Jenny, what the hell is going on?  What’s 
spooked you so bad?” 
“I’ll explain when I’m there with you.  I don’t want to talk on a 
plane about the craft, you know what I’m sayin’?”
Her ways of putting things made Trevor laugh.  It was one of the 
things he adored so much about her.
“Ok, an hour and a half is not such a bad wait.”
“And, Trev?”
He had decided to go back to the all-hours diner he and Mrs. 
Shehez had eaten earlier to wait for Jenny.  “Yeah?”
“You really should get you a car, you filthy rich man!”
Two Hours Later, at the dinner…
Trevor and Jenny had done all the hugging and joking that two 
good friends do when they haven’t seen each other for months. 
They had ordered coffee and waited until the server walked away 
before they got to business.
Jenny had brought only a portion of her Paranormal equipment 
with her on her flight from Portland, Maine.  One of the tools 
was an electronic tablet that she adapted for her researches in 
the Paranormal.  She slid it toward Trevor for him to take a 
look…
It took a while, but Trevor realized what he was looking at.  “This 
is from part of Mrs. Shehez’s video that I sent you during the 
day!”
“Yup…”  Jenny, a couple of years older than Trevor; also wearing 
thick-rimmed glasses, gestured with a jutting chin for him to 
inspect the still-image further.
The server showed up again, this time with their coffee, cream, 
and water.  Trevor went ahead and paid and tipped the young 
woman and continued to stare at the image on the etablet.
“What the hell is that,” he finally said, giving up.
She reached over the table of cups of coffee and water and began 
to tap in some commands.  Jenny leaned back in her seat with 
satisfaction.  The video from Mrs. Shehez was, once again, 
playing, but with several filters added:  for dark and light 
contrasts, for shadow-reductions, some sharpening of outlines…
All those filters helped sharpen, though not perfectly, the image 
of that dark-flash toward the end of Mrs. Shehez’s video.  Jenny 
had also set the etablet to loop that flash-point of the video.  
The being, very dark-brown with dark mustard-orange sclerae 
for its eyes, could be seen leaping in front of the Mrs. Shehez’s 
phone-camera.  If, in fact, that was what it was doing.  Again, the 
quality of the footage was a bit grainy, but it was the best that 
Jenny could do with, apparently, footage taken from a 
Paranormal encounter!  The being seemed humanoid in 
appearance, but clearly it was not of the sapiens lineage!  Indeed, 
from some of the details of the recording of the being’s 
surroundings—Mrs. Shehez’s hallway—the being looked a lot 
larger than most humans!  It had a shock of hair; its arms held 
out, as if it were almost beckoning someone!
Without even having to say a word, all Trevor did was slowly 
raise his eyes from the electronic tablet and put them on Jenny. 
She obliged.
“ ‘I Dream Of Jeannie’… ‘Aladdin’…you know, the ol’ rubbing 
the ancient oil lamp and what we call today a genie smokes out 
and grants you wishes…that, my friend, is a bona fide djinni.”
By that time, Trevor was nodding while watching the looping 
video on the etablet.  “With a ‘d.’  Yeah, I read about that in art 
history…aren’t they from the mysticism of the Sufi sect of 
Islam?”
“Well, djinn are mentioned in the Quran, and the Sufi are usually 
more associated with the concept of the djinn.  But it’s kind of a 
regional thing in the Middle East going back far more than three 
thousand years before Islam was even founded!  Kind of like 
paganism with the Europeans before they took to Christianity, 
right?  Mind you, other parts of the Middle East farther away 
from ancient Mesopotamia had their own spin on the djinn…”
Jenny leaned forward in her seat at the diner-table and did some 
swiping on the electronic tablet to bring up another window 
from another website that she, apparently, had saved on her 
tablet.  The image brought up was of ancient Mesopotamia, but 
the rendering looked very similar with early- Medieval European 
Christian paintings!  Instead of Roman lettering, Arabic 
calligraphy adorned the ancient page which the artwork was 
painted on.  To the right within the scene, loomed a large, dark 
caricature of a djinni holding a male human that was mostly 
naked.  To the left of this djinni were other mythical beings—one 
with wings and a set of horns atop its head as it appeared to be 
flying down from the heavens while two more beings were 
planted on the earth.  Each of those creatures actually looked 
more animal-like and distorted than the giant djinni depicted in 
the ancient painting!  
The one thing that stuck out most to Trevor was how the smaller 
beings facing the seated giant holding the human all had their 
hands out toward the djinni—as if in a pleading or beckoning 
gesture.  Very similar how the djinni was holding his hands out 
in that dark-flashing moment from Mrs. Shehez’s recorded 
video!
Trevor hovered a pointing finger at this observation; careful not 
to touch the interactive monitor.  “Right here…what are these 
other creatures doing, Jen?  It’s almost as if they’re trying to coax 
the djinni into giving the human to them!”
Jenny looked at Trevor with a smile that he recognized.  He was 
on to something, but she wanted Trevor to figure it out for 
himself!  He looked at Jenny’s guiding smile, then back at the 
ancient parchment on the etablet.  He thought for a while…
“This is an ancient tale from the Middle East…Mrs. Shehez and 
her husband are from Pakistan—a bit on the eastern edge from 
Mesopotamia, but a lot of shared cultural themes…that’s got to 
be a connection!  And—and in this ancient scene, it’s almost as if 
the djinni is trying to protect the human!  If not, then…”
“Why wasn’t Mrs. Shehez hurt in the encounter, Trev,” Jenny 
asked with some sympathy.
Again, Trevor thought for a while as his eyes went to his cooled 
cup of coffee; trying to dig deeper into the weird world of the 
Paranormal that was more suited for Jenny and not him!  “I was 
wondering about that myself…”  Then, Trevor flinched!  His 
head snapped from the table and his eyes peered at Jenny. 
“There were two apparitions recorded!  I—I had forgotten with 
all the…the first one was slow-moving, like how an elderly man 
might walk—”
“Yes,” Jenny responded; but her smile was gone from her face.
“Mrs. Shehez turned the corner while chasing the first 
apparition, and…and that’s when that flash happened—the 
djinni jumped right in front of Mrs. Shehez…”
Both sat silently; staring at each other.  Jenny already knew the 
answer, but Trevor was not far behind.  It was something he 
didn’t like the answer to, but the logic behind the whole 
incident, the ancient history, and the Paranormal expert’s 
guiding hand all seemed to converge at that point!
“A refill for either of you,” the young server had asked; an old-
fashioned glass coffee pot in hand.  She seemed to catch on that 
the conversation at the table was on the heavy side.
“I’ll take some more, thank you,” Jenny said with a bright smile 
that beguiled the mood at the diner-table.
“I’m good, thanks,” Trevor said absent-mindedly as he 
continued to look at that painting of a tale from antiquities.  He 
reached into his jacket-pocket and produced his smartphone. 
With a couple of swipes, Trevor had made a call.  
“Yeah, hello, is this Fazal Shehez; Mrs. Shehez’s son?  Ok, good. 
Look, I was calling to—.  When…?  Oh my god…heart attack?” 
He looked at Jenny, but she kept drinking her cup of coffee while 
she looked out the window of the diner; a knowing-look on her 
face.  “Yeah, my condolences, Mr. Shehez…Yeah, I’ll get in touch 
with you later about her things…No problem, Mr. Shehez; that’s 
what a good landlord is supposed to do…”
fin
