
 <|startoftext|> 
Chapter 1
Kevin’s eyes lit up the instant his dad turned down the dirt road leading towards Wellington 
Lake. Not only was it one of his favorite places to camp in Colorado, his parents had also invited 
his best friend Emalyn to come along.
“How much longer until we get there?” Emalyn asked as she peered out the window at the 
passing trees.
“We should be there pretty soon, it’s only ten miles to the lake,” Kevin replied.
“How big is it?” Emalyn asked as she tried to picture it in her head.
“I think the lake is a mile long, but it’s not that wide,” Kevin replied.
“Can we swim in it?”
“We could, but the water isn’t very warm. So unless it gets really hot, I doubt that we will 
want to.”
“What do you do for fun?” Emalyn asked.
“I usually just play along the edge of the lake with my mom, and when I get tired of that, my 
dad likes to take me up to Castle Mountain for some off-trail adventures.”
“Where is that?”
“It’s on the back side of the lake. You can’t miss it, it’s a huge granite peak that towers over 
everything around it.”
“Have you ever made it to the top of Castle Mountain?” Emalyn asked out of curiosity.
“No, the last time we tried we had to turn back because our dog couldn’t make it past the 
boulder field that’s just below the peak.”
“Why is that?”
“She was old, and the boulders were too large for her to climb over,” Kevin replied.
“You and I should try and reach the top… if your parents will let us go up there.”
“I think they will. My dad calls me his mountain goat because I do so well off-trail 
whenever we go hiking. I know it’s kind of silly, but I like it.”
“What did you have to do to earn that name?” Emalyn chuckled.
“The last time we were here, my dad took me on a grueling hike around the base of Castle 
Mountain and then asked me to find my way back to the campsite without a map or compass. I 
knew it was a test to see if I could navigate without him in case we ever got separated, or if I 
wanted to go hiking on my own.”
“Were you able to do it?”
“Yeah, the first thing I did was locate a couple of landmarks that I was familiar with, and 
then I used them to guide me back to the campsite… and that’s how I earned the nickname 
mountain goat.” 
“That’s pretty cool,” Emalyn admitted. “If we reach the top, I want a nickname like that.”
“How about bark beetle?” Kevin joked.
“Eew, you know I don’t like those kinds of bugs,” Emalyn cringed.
“How about, centipede?”
“That’s even worse.”
“Meal worn?”
“That’s even more disgusting… maybe you should stop while we’re still friends,” Emalyn 
smiled since she was just kidding.
“Okay, I’ll try and think up something that you would like,” Kevin promised. “Hey dad, 
when we get to the lake can Emalyn and I go hiking up Castle Mountain?”
“We had kind of a late start, so I don’t think there’s going to be enough time to do that, but 
you can go tomorrow if the weather is nice.”
“Alright,” Kevin sighed as he turned and stared out the window. When he saw the lake in 
the distance, he tapped Emalyn on the shoulder so she wouldn’t miss it.
“That is a big lake,” Emalyn remarked with a look of excitement in her soft brown eyes.
“And that’s Castle Mountain right behind it.”
“Wow, it’s a lot taller and more rugged looking than I imagined,” Emalyn admitted.
“Do you still want to try and climb to the top of it?”
“Of course, you know how I like a challenge,” Emalyn smiled.
“I do,” Kevin replied as he thought about how neither of them would give up on a video 
game no matter how hard it was, or how frustrated it made them when they played it.
“We’re almost there,” Brian announced as he turned down the road leading to the entrance 
to the campground. Then he parked at the office so he could go in and pay for the campsite.
“How many days are we staying?” Kevin asked when his dad returned.
“I took Monday off so we can stay until then,” Brian replied as he pulled out of the parking 
area and started down towards the lake. When he looked in the mirror, he noticed a cloud of 
reddish dust billowing up behind the camper, so he slowed down a bit so he wouldn’t dust 
everyone out along the way.
“Which spot is ours?” Kevin asked as they drove past several that were empty.
“The one on the backside that is closest to Castle Mountain, and still has a nice view of the 
lake.”
“I love that spot!” Kevin exclaimed.
“I know, that’s why I picked it,” Brian replied as he continued around the lake until they 
reached their campsite. Then he backed the trailer in, and parked the truck in the shade.
Once everyone was out, he unhooked the pop-up from the hitch and started setting it up. 
While he was busy doing that, Kevin and Emalyn helped Josephine unpack the camping supplies 
and move the picnic table closer to the fire pit.
“The trailer’s ready if you want to go in and setup your beds,” Brian remarked after he 
finished leveling it.
“I’ve never been in a pop-up before,” Emalyn remarked after she followed Kevin inside.
“It’s small, but it beats sleeping on the ground,” Kevin admitted as he set both of their 
sleeping bags on the bed and started unrolling them.
“Can I put mine next to yours?” Emalyn asked after she noticed there were only two small 
sleeping areas on opposite sides of the trailer.
“Yeah, this is our side.”
“That’s cool, we’ll be bunk mates,” Emalyn smiled.
“If you need to use the bathroom there is an outhouse across from our campsite, but hold 
your breath when you go inside, because it’s deadly,” Kevin warned as he pinched his nose.
“Really?”
“Yeah. It’s so stinky that your eyes will water, but it’s either that, or the bushes.”
“Maybe the bushes would be safer?” Emalyn whispered.
“That’s what I use when no one is looking, but watch out for poison oak.”
“I know exactly what that looks like,” Emalyn remarked as if she had had an encounter with 
it in the past.
“I was going to go down to the lake, do you want to come with me?” Kevin asked after he 
was done setting up his sleeping bag.
“Okay,” Emalyn replied as she followed him down to the lake.
After they had walked half way around it, the sun disappeared behind Castle Mountain, 
which gave the sky a soft warm glow.
“It’s very pretty up here,” Emalyn remarked as she gazed out over the tranquil water.
“I know, I like how quiet and peaceful it is compared to home, and school, where it’s noisy 
all the time.”
“Does that bother you too?” Emalyn asked.
“Yeah, that’s one of the reasons I like coming here,” Kevin admitted.
“I just saw a little fish dart out of the shadows,” Emalyn remarked. “Look, there he is 
again!”
“Oh yeah, I see him,” Kevin replied as the tiny speckled fish darted around the clumps of 
algae looking for food. When the fish noticed they were watching him, he quickly swam out into 
the deeper water.
“That was neat,” Emalyn remarked after the fish was gone.
“There is a large boulder at the south end of the lake, if we climb up on it, we might be able 
to see some larger fish,” Kevin suggested.
“Okay, and even if we don’t, we can practice our climbing skills for tomorrow’s hike.”
“Weird, that’s what I was just thinking,” Kevin replied as he headed over to it.
“We’re such close friends, that maybe we know what the other one is thinking.”
“What am I picturing in my head right now?” Kevin asked.
“Pickles.”
“Ha-ha, that’s not even close,” Kevin laughed. “I was thinking about that fish we just saw.”
“Try me,” Emalyn suggested.
“I see a dragon hiding near a tree.”
“That’s exactly what I was picturing!” Emalyn replied as she tried not to laugh.
“Really?”
“No, silly. I was thinking about the raven I saw over by the campsite.”
“Was it the one sitting in the tree?”
“Yeah… I guess you weren’t that far off after all,” Emalyn admitted after she thought about 
it for a moment.
When they reached the boulder, Kevin helped her up the last little bit since her shoes were 
slipping on the surface of the rock.
“Don’t worry, I brought my boots along, so you won’t have to pull me up the mountain 
when we go hiking tomorrow,” Emalyn smiled.
“I don’t mind,” Kevin replied as he reached into his pocket and handed her a bunch of round 
stones.
“What are they for?”
“I thought it would be fun to see how far we could throw them out into the lake.”
“Thanks,” Emalyn replied as she launched one way out over the water.
“Wow, you have a really good arm.”
“I get a lot practice throwing a tennis ball for the neighbor’s dog.”
“It’s nice that I don’t always have to do girlie stuff when I hang out with you,” Kevin 
admitted as he handed her a few more rocks.
“And I like how you look out for me at school, and make up fun games for us to play when 
we get bored in class,” Emalyn replied.
“I guess that’s why we’re such good friends.”
“It looks like your mom wants us to come back,” Emalyn remarked when she saw Josephine 
waving at them.
“It must be time for dinner,” Kevin sighed as he helped her down from the boulder.
“Are you kids hungry?” Josephine asked when they arrived back at the campsite.
“Yeah. Can we roast marshmallows after dinner?” Kevin asked when he saw that his dad 
had started a fire.
“That’s why we brought them,” Josephine replied as she handed each of them a plate of 
food.
“Thank you,” Emalyn replied before sitting down at the picnic table.
“Have you gone camping before?” Josephine asked.
“No, I’ve been hiking a bunch of times, but this is my first camp-out.”
“We’re cheating a bit with a pop-up trailer, but other than that, it’s pretty much the same 
thing.”
“Thanks for inviting me, so far it seems like a lot of fun,” Emalyn replied before taking 
another bite out of her hotdog.
Once everyone had finished eating, Brian opened the bag of marshmallows, and passed them 
around. Kevin took a handful and then put one on a stick for Emalyn.
“Have you ever roasted a marshmallow before?” he asked when she seemed a little hesitant 
about what to do with it.
“No, but I’ll give it a try.”
Kevin couldn’t help but laugh when she stuck it directly into the flames and it immediately 
caught fire and fell off the stick.
“Would you like me to show you how to cook it?” he offered.
“Yeah… I guess it’s not as easy as it looks,” Emalyn admitted as she handed him back the 
roasting stick.
“The trick is to hold it up above the flames while slowly turning it so it doesn’t burn. Once 
it’s golden brown, it’s ready to eat,” Kevin explained as he handed the stick to her.
“Like this?” Emalyn asked as she slowly rotated it in her hand while keeping it away from 
the flames.
“Yeah, that’s perfect,” Kevin replied as he handed her another marshmallow.
Once the bag was empty, they all sat quietly by the fire and watched it slowly burn down.
“Do you want me to add any more wood to the campfire?” Kevin asked when the last little 
flame died out.
“No, I think we’re about done for the night,” Brian replied after the distant rumble of 
thunder revealed an approaching storm.
“Is it coming our way?”
“I think so,” Brian replied as a gust of wind swept through their camp, breathing new life 
into their dying campfire. When he saw that happen, he picked up a pan full of water and poured 
it over the red-hot coals, causing a cloud of ash and steam to billow high into the air.
“Wow, that looks like an erupting volcano,” Emalyn remarked.
“My dad never leaves a fire unattended after he set fire to a tree on school property when he 
was a kid.”
“Kevin! That’s not something I’m proud of,” Brian scolded.
“I know, but it’s a good example of what not to do.”
“I suppose, but only if you tell the whole story and don’t leave out the key facts, like it was 
an accidental fire… or the fact that my older brother was the one playing with the matches. I’m 
not saying he caused the fire, because I was playing with sticks that he had lit on fire, and I might 
have caused it. Either way, we weren’t being very careful, and after we left the school a fire 
broke out in a cluster of trees where we had been messing around. Luckily, someone saw the fire 
and put it out before it got very big. They also saw us leaving the school right after it happened 
and they told our parents what we did. Even though it was an accident, we got into the most 
trouble you can ever imagine.”
“So would you say the moral of that story is, don’t play with fire, or you’ll get burned?” 
Kevin snickered.
“Nooo, not another bad pun,” Brian cringed.
“Oh dad, you love them,” Kevin laughed.
When another gust of wind swept through the camp, Brian got up and opened the door to the 
trailer, signaling it was time to go in.
“If you kids need anything during the night, just let me know,” Josephine offered in a 
motherly tone.
“Goodnight mom,” Kevin replied.
“Goodnight, and thanks again for inviting me,” Emalyn added as she climbed over Kevin to 
get into her sleeping bag.
“You’re welcome,” Josephine replied before turning off the lights.
As the storm approached, the thunder grew louder and the wind started to gust so hard it 
caused the trailer to rock back and forth unexpectantly.
“Are you alright?” Kevin whispered when Emalyn moved her sleeping bag closer to his.
“Yeah, that last bolt of lighting seemed kind of close,” Emalyn whispered back in a 
frightened tone.
“I think it hit Castle Mountain, at least that’s where the flash came from.”
“I hope the next one doesn’t hit the trailer.”
“It won’t,” Kevin insisted. “We’re not the tallest object around, and I read somewhere that 
that’s what usually gets struck.”
“Okay,” Emalyn replied as she scooted a little closer to him.
When the next few rumbles of thunder seemed further away, she closed her eyes and slowly 
drifted off to sleep.
Chapter 2
The next morning Kevin and Emalyn got up early and helped themselves to some muffins 
and cold cereal. When they finished eating breakfast, Kevin tiptoed over to his dad and gently 
tapped him on the shoulder.
“What do you need?” Brian asked in a groggy voice.
“Is it okay if Emalyn and I go for a hike on Castle Mountain?”
“Yeah, take your cell phone and plenty of water so you don’t get dehydrated.”
“I already have both,” Kevin replied.
“Then have fun, be safe, and make sure you’re back in time for lunch.”
“Okay, we will,” Kevin promised as he opened the trailer door for Emalyn, and then 
followed her out.
“Your dad didn’t seem worried about us going for a hike by ourselves.”
“No, he trusts both of us, and he knows if we get into any trouble we can call him.”
“I didn’t think a cell phone would work up here?”
“Yeah, we’re high enough up that we can get a signal from the cell towers along the 
highway,” Kevin replied as he pulled it out and showed her it had a weak signal. “It will get 
stronger once we get out of the trees.”
“Then lead the way mountain goat,” Emalyn remarked in a light-hearted tone.
“If we make it to the top, you’re getting a special nickname,” Kevin smiled.
“I hope it’s better than the other ones you were suggesting.”
“Oh, you’re going to love it,” Kevin promised as he headed up a ravine that led towards 
Castle Mountain.
“Did the storm scare you at all?” Emalyn asked as she walked along side him.
“A little bit,” Kevin admitted. “How about you?”
“Yeah, I didn’t like it when the trailer began to shake, but at least it wasn’t hit by lighting.”
“That would have been shocking,” Kevin joked.
“You’re so funny,” Emalyn giggled. “I like it when you punned your dad last night.”
“I do that all the time just to tease him… and the worse the pun, the quicker he responds,” 
Kevin snickered as he continued up the slope.
When they reached a brushy area, Kevin slowed down and helped Emalyn through the 
worse parts of it so it wouldn’t scratch her arms or legs.
“You weren’t kidding about this being a difficult climb,” Emalyn remarked once her lungs 
started to burn from the thinning air.
“Let’s stop for a minute so we can catch our breath.”
“How high do you think we are?” Emalyn asked after she took a few sips from her water 
bottle.
“My dad said the top of Castle Mountain is close to ten thousand feet, and I know the lake is 
about eight... so I’m guessing that we are somewhere around nine at this point.”
“Wow, that’s pretty high”.
“You should take a picture,” Kevin suggested.
“That’s a good idea, that way I can show my mom what the lake looks like from way up 
here.”
“When we get to the boulder field, you’ll be able to see all the way to Denver.”
“No way?” Emalyn remarked as if she didn’t quite believe him.
“I’m serious, and if we reach the top, I think we can see Kansas.”
“Then let’s go higher,” Emalyn said with a determined look in her eyes.
“Alright, do you want to lead for awhile?”
“Nope, I want you to be my trail guide,” Emalyn replied.
“Alright, I’ll take you higher.”
As the slope continued to steepen, Kevin would stop every so often so they could rest, and 
take in the amazing views.
“We’re almost to the boulder field,” he remarked when the trees started to thin out. “Do you 
want to keep going?”
“Yes, I want to see all the way to Kansas,” Emalyn replied.
“Alright Dorothy,” Kevin laughed.
“Dorothy… as in the Wizard of OZ?”
“Yeah, wasn’t she in Kansas when a tornado took her to another realm?”
“Your jokes are from another realm,” Emalyn teased.
“Okay, maybe that wasn’t my best material, but you’re the only one who lets me joke 
around with them without making fun of me.”
“I like your jokes, even the silly ones,” Emalyn admitted.
“Thanks,” Kevin replied before heading on.
When he passed by a large tree just before the start of the boulder field, he noticed that it 
had a spiraling mark running down the length of it.
“I think this tree was hit by lightning,” Kevin remarked as he stared at it for a moment.
“How can you tell?”
“There’s a burn scar spiraling down the trunk, and a pile of splintered wood fragments at the 
base of it.”
“Okay, I’ll be there in a minute,” Emalyn replied as she paused so she could catch her 
breath.
While Kevin was waiting, he knelt down and picked up one of the shards.
“What are you doing?” Emalyn asked when she saw him holding the shard up to his nose 
and sniffing it like a dog.
“I wanted to see if it smelled like burnt wood or not, and it does.”
“Toss me a piece.”
“Alright, let me find a better one for you,” Kevin replied. When he knelt back down to pull 
another one from the pile, he instantly jumped back when he thought he saw something moving 
under the wood.
“What’s wrong?” Emalyn asked after she saw what happened.
“I think there’s something living in there,” Kevin replied with an unsettled look on his face.
“Can you see it?”
“I just got a glimpse, but it looked kind of green and scaly.”
“Is it a snake?”
“I’m not sure,” Kevin replied as he used his foot to carefully move a piece of wood out of 
the way so he could see what it was. “Oh boy… it’s just a stuffed animal that looks like a 
dragon.”
“Who would bring something like that up here, and then leave it under a tree?”
“I don’t know,” Kevin replied after moving another piece of wood out of the way so he 
could see it better.
“Is it a girlie looking dragon, or the kind of stuffed animal a little boy would play with?”
“It’s a girlie looking one.”
“Pick it up so I can see it.”
“I don’t really want to,” Kevin replied since he was still a little spooked by the fact that he 
thought it was alive.
“You’re not afraid of a stuffed animal are you?” Emalyn teased.
“No I’m not,” Kevin insisted as he reached down and picked it up.
“Oh, that does look life-like,” Emalyn remarked as she stared at it for a moment.
“It feels funny too.”
“What do you mean?”
“I don’t know… it doesn’t feel like fabric, it feels like scales, and it’s making my hand 
tingle.”
“Kevin… I just saw its eyes open for a second after you ran your hand over it!”
“Nice try, Emalyn!”
“I’m not kidding! It opened its eyes when you touched it!” Kevin slowly set the dragon 
down, and when he took his hands off of her, she looked up at him and let out a pitiful little cry.
“Emalyn, I think she’s injured, what should I do?”
“See if she will drink some water,” Emalyn replied as she tossed him the bottle of water in 
her hand. Kevin immediately poured a little in the cap, and then offered it to her. The dragon 
sniffed it for a moment, and then lapped it up with her little forked tongue. Then she reached for 
Kevin’s hand with her claw before collapsing.
“Kevin, I think she wants you to hold her.”
“Okay, she’s a dragon, but she’s little,” he muttered to himself as he scooped her up into his 
arms.
“I think the water might have helped,” Emalyn remarked after she came over to look at her.
“See if she wants some more,” Kevin suggested as he gently cradled her in his arms. Emalyn 
picked the cap up off the ground, and then poured a little more into it before offering it to the 
dragon. As before, she sniffed it for a second, and then lapped up a little more before nestling her 
head in the crook of Kevin’s arm.
“She’s so cute, do you think I could touch her?”
“She seems to like it when I do,” Kevin replied.
“Okay, I’ll just gently run my finger over her tail… wow, she really does feel life-like.”
“Like a real dragon,” Kevin smiled.
“Yeah, I thought they went extinct after the middle-ages… when there were knights, and 
castles, and ferocious dragons eating people.”
“She doesn’t look very ferocious, and she’s a little too small to eat anyone,” Kevin joked.
“Maybe the history books had it wrong, or maybe she’s a baby dragon?”
“I don’t know… but we can’t leave her out here now that we know she needs our help,” 
Kevin replied.
“You could wrap her in your jacket, and we can take her back with us.”
“Okay, but what should I tell my parents?”
“Well, they can see that she is an injured animal, so maybe they will let us help her until she 
gets better.”
“Emalyn, she’s a dragon, and adults think they are mythical creatures. Don’t you think they 
might freak-out when we show her to them?”
“They can clearly see that she is not a mythical creature, and your parents seem pretty 
accepting of stuff.”
“Alright, let’s take her back and see what they say, but I warned you,” Kevin agreed as he 
gently wrapped his jacket around her, and then held her in his arms.
As they made their way back down the mountain, Emalyn stayed close to Kevin so that she 
could help him over fallen logs, and through the brushy spots so that he wouldn’t risk dropping 
her.
“How is she is doing?” Emalyn asked when they reached the ravine across from their 
campsite.
“I think she’s asleep, would you mind taking a peek to make sure?”
“Uh Kevin… I don’t see her!” Emalyn remarked as she peeked under the jacket.
“What do you mean? I can feel her in my arms,” Kevin replied as if Emalyn had overlooked 
her somehow.
“Nope, she’s gone!” Emalyn insisted as she pulled open the jacket so that he could see that 
she wasn’t there.
“I don’t understand,” Kevin replied in a frantic voice as he shifted the jacket into one hand 
so he could feel around with the other. When he felt her cool scales against his hand, he gasped. 
“Emalyn, she’s not gone… she’s invisible,” he blurted out as if he didn’t even believe it. Emalyn 
reached over to where his hand was touching her, and then looked on in utter disbelief.
“How is that possible?”
“I don’t know, but I think we should wait to tell my parents about her until we know more.”
“Yeah, they might have been able to accept that dragons are real, but it’s going to be hard to 
explain one that can disappear at will,” Emalyn replied.
“Would you mind holding her for a few minutes so I can go tell them that we are back from 
our hike? I don’t want them to get worried or come looking for us.”
“Sure,” Emalyn replied as she gently folded the jacket back around the dragon before lifting 
her out of his arms.
While he was gone, she gently caressed the little creature, partially to comfort her, and 
partially because she couldn’t get over the fact she could hide in plain sight.
“What’s that?” Emalyn asked when she saw Kevin walking back with a small bag in his 
hand.
“I grabbed a few things in case she might be hungry.”
“Like what?” Emalyn asked as she moved over so he could sit next to her.
“I brought a carrot, some blue berries, and a hotdog since I don’t know if she eats fruits and 
vegetables, or likes meat.”
“Hotdogs aren’t found in nature, so I would try the carrot or the blueberry first,” Emalyn 
suggested.
“Good point, I’ll break off a piece of carrot and see if she takes it.” When nothing happened 
after a few minutes, he tossed the carrot aside and put a blueberry in its place.
“If she’s a carnivore, then maybe she would like the hotdog,” Emalyn remarked when she 
showed no interest in blueberry.
“Alright, it is meat, although I have no idea what kind they are made from,” Kevin chuckled 
as he broke off a piece of it and placed it next to his jacket. Within a few seconds the dragon 
appeared, gulped down the treat, and then quickly changed color to match the jacket.
“Kevin, did you see that… she’s able to match her surroundings just like a chameleon!”
“That’s so cool. I wonder if she can match a stick,” Kevin remarked as he picked one up and 
placed it under her tail. A split second later, a thin narrow line appeared on the surface of her 
scales that matched the stick’s color and texture perfectly.
“Let’s try something really challenging,” Emalyn suggested as she removed the stick and 
replaced it with a piece of foil. With a few seconds, her scales changed to a bright silvery color, 
mimicking not only the foils reflective surface, but its crinkled texture as well.
“Wow, she can match anything,” Kevin remarked as he looked on in amazement.
“Kids, it’s time for lunch,” Josephine called out.
“Okay mom… we’ll be right there.”
“What are we going to do with her?” Emalyn asked as she looked down at the dragon for 
moment.
“I’ll go get our lunches, and then we can share them with her if she’s still hungry,” Kevin 
replied.
“Will your parents get upset if we don’t eat with them?”
“Not as long as I don’t skip out on dinner since that’s family time,” Kevin remarked before 
running off.
When he returned, he was carrying two large plates of food with an extra hotdog on each 
one.
“Did they ask you why you took so many hotdogs?”
“Yeah, and I told them they were for our pet dragon.”
“That’s a good one,” Emalyn laughed.
“I know. They didn’t believe me even though I was telling the truth.”
“Won’t they be surprised when they find out you weren’t joking.”
“Yeah, that’s going to be an interesting conversation,” Kevin admitted as he sat down on the 
other side of where his jacket was sitting. No sooner had he set a piece of hotdog down, then the 
dragon changed back to what appeared to be her natural green color, and ate it.
“Do you think she is changing color so that we can see her, or so that we know she’s 
hungry?” Emalyn questioned.
“I don’t know,” Kevin replied as he handed the rest of the hotdog to her.
After she gulped it down, she looked over at Emalyn and clawed the air.
“Wow, she’s really smart… you’re still eating your hotdog, but she’s begging from me as if 
she knows it’s my turn to feed her the extra one on my plate.”
“How could she possibly know that?” 
“Maybe she’s read my mind like you were doing down by the lake, or maybe she 
understands our language,” Emalyn joked.
“That would be really cool, but I’m sure she just saw that you had more food on your plate 
than I had on mine.”
“Yeah, that makes more sense,” Emalyn replied as she fed her a piece of the hotdog off her 
plate.
After she finished eating the second hotdog, she curled up on the jacket and vanished from 
sight.
“I guess that’s all she wanted,” Emalyn remarked.
“What would you like to do while she’s resting?” Kevin asked.
“Well, she seems pretty content, do you think we can go play down by the lake as long as 
we come back up and check on her every so often?”
“Okay, let me put my jacket in the shade, and then we can go down to the lake.”
After they had been splashing in the shallows and skipping rocks across the water for over 
an hour, Kevin headed back up to check on the dragon. But when he looked under the tree where 
he had left his coat, it was gone and he started to panic.
“Mom, did you move my jacket?” he yelled out as he ran towards the campsite as fast as he 
could.
“I put it in the trailer,” Josephine replied. Kevin raced past her and into the pop-up. When he 
saw his jacket laying on his sleeping bag, he ran over to it, and started patting it with his hands.
“Whew!” he sighed in relief when he felt a dragon sized lump tucked inside of it.
“Is everything alright?” Josephine asked as she poked her head inside the trailer to check on 
him.
“Yeah. I was concerned when I didn’t see my jacket under the tree.”
“I noticed it was kind of heavy, have you been collecting rocks again?”
“Emalyn and I found something cool on our hike and I tucked it in my coat for safe 
keeping.”
“Can I see it?”
“No, you can’t really see it right now, but I would be happy to show it to you later,” Kevin 
promised.
“Alright, I’ll wait for the surprise,” Josephine smiled. “When you’re done being mysterious, 
would you please let Emalyn know we’re about to have dinner?”
“Oaky,” Kevin replied as he moved the jacket so it would be nestled between their sleeping 
bags. Then he returned to the lake to get Emalyn.
“So your mom didn’t even know she was in your jacket when she moved it?” Emalyn asked 
after he told her what had happened.
“No, she noticed the jacket seemed kind of heavy, but I often collect stuff when I’m out 
hiking, so she assumed it was an interesting rock or something like that.”
“Just help yourself to the food,” Josephine remarked when they returned to the camp.
“Thanks mom,” Kevin replied as he picked up two plates and handed Emalyn one of them.
After they finished eating, Kevin looked over at the trailer and yawned.
“I’m kind of tired, would it be okay if I got ready for bed.”
“What? No marshmallows?” Brian asked with a surprised look.
“No, I had so many last night that I’m kind of tired of them.”
“What about you Emalyn? Are you going to stay up and roast some marshmallows with us?”
“No, that hike really wore me out.”
“Okay, we’ll be in in a little bit,” Brian replied.
After Kevin and Emalyn had gone inside, Brian looked over at Josephine, and shrugged his 
shoulders, as if he didn’t quite understand what had happened.
“They were out hiking and playing all day,” Josephine remarked in a low voice.
“Yeah, that’s true, but when I was a kid, I played all day and half the night.”
“Not every kid was a robot like you were growing up,” Josephine teased.
“I was not a robot,” Brian replied in a robotic voice.
“Maybe not, but you were a little different from the other kids your age,” Josephine smirked.
“What are you talking about?”
“Not every child built a chemistry set to test rocks and minerals when they were ten.”
“I might have been a bit of a nerd,” Brian admitted.
“Just a bit,” Josephine smiled.
“Since nobody wants to roast marshmallows, what do think about turning in early?”
“It’s not because I’m teasing you, is it?”
“No, I’m actually tired, and since we’re on vacation why not get some extra sleep?”
“Sounds good to me,” Josephine replied as she followed him into the trailer.
After they turned off the lights and went to bed, Kevin nudged Emalyn with his elbow to see 
if she was still awake.
“What is it?” she whispered.
“If the dragon needs to get up during the night, can you pretend that you need to use the 
bathroom and take her out with you.”
“Okay,” Emalyn replied.
“Thanks, I sleep like the dead, and I’m afraid I won’t wake up if she needs something.”
“No problem, I’ll make sure she can get out if she needs to, ” Emalyn replied as she put her 
arm around the little dragon to comfort her.
Chapter 3
When Kevin woke up, the first thing he did was reach over and patted his coat with his hand 
to check on the dragon, but it was empty.
“Emalyn, wake up,” he whispered in an urgent tone.
“What’s wrong?”
“Did you take the dragon out last night?”
“No, she never woke me,” Emalyn whispered back.
“I can’t find her… feel around on your side and see if she moved during the night.”
“I don’t feel anything,” Emalyn replied after a thorough search. Then, out of the corner of 
her eye, she saw something moving over on the counter. “Kevin, I think she’s trying to get into 
the bag of jerky on the counter,” Emalyn whispered. Kevin immediately looked over and saw the 
bag being tugged on as if a phantom was clawing at it.
“I’ll see if I can catch her,” Kevin replied as he got out of bed and quietly tiptoed over 
towards the counter. As he slowly reached out to nab her, the bag suddenly tore open and several 
pieces of jerky went flying into the air. Kevin instinctively grabbed the ones he could, but one of 
the pieces flew straight towards his dad’s face, and fell right into his half open mouth, instantly 
waking him from his slumber.
“What is going on?” his dad demanded after he pulled the jerky strip out of his mouth.
“Oops,” Kevin replied innocently. “I thought you were awake, and you looked really 
hungry!”
“I was sleeping you joker!”
“I’m sorry, I’ll go back to bed,” Kevin apologized as he quickly retreated to the other side of 
the trailer. Brian gave him ‘the look’. It was the one that said, ‘don’t you dare bother me again, 
or else!’ Every parent had it, and every kid knew exactly what it meant. After Brian closed his 
eyes and rolled over so he was facing the other way, Kevin slowly knelt down and waved a piece 
of jerky back and forth hoping to entice the little troublemaker over to him. Within a few 
seconds, the little green dragon appeared, and he quickly picked her up and put her on his lap.
“I got her,” he whispered to Emalyn, before motioning that he was going to take her outside. 
Emalyn nodded and then quietly followed him out after she grabbed the partially clawed bag of 
jerky off the counter.
“That was close,” Emalyn exclaimed.
“I know. I thought my dad was going to kill me when the jerky flew into his mouth and 
woke him up.”
“Did you see the look on his face, it was priceless,” Emalyn chuckled.
“I just hope he was groggy enough to forget it ever happened.”
“You played it off pretty well,” Emalyn remarked as she tucked the bag of jerky into her 
pocket.
“Can I have another piece?” the dragon asked in a soft voice as she eyed the pocket that 
Emalyn had just put it in.
“Holy goose-bumps… you can talk!” Emalyn blurted out in disbelief.
“Of course I can talk,” the dragon replied as if there was nothing unusual about it. Emalyn 
glanced at Kevin, who was in such a state of shock that he couldn’t even speak.
“Do you have a name?” Emalyn asked as she pulled out the bag of jerky and handed her a 
piece.
“I… I can’t remember it,” the dragon admitted after gulping down the dried meat.
“Do you remember what happened to you before we found you?” Kevin asked.
“No, where was I?”
“You were buried under a pile of splintered wood half-way up Castle Mountain.”
“I wonder what I was doing up there?”
“I don’t know, but when I found you, I thought that you were a stuffed animal.”
“You thought that I was a toy?” the dragon snorted indignantly.
“Sorry, you’re the first real dragon either of us have ever seen,” Kevin admitted.
“Really? You’ve never seen another dragon?”
“Not a real one,” Kevin replied.
“That’s not good… and why can’t I remember what happened to me?”
“I think you have amnesia,” Emalyn suggested. “My mom is a nurse, and she told me that 
when people lose their memory it’s usually because they hit their head, or had an accident that 
knocked them out.”
“I won’t ever know what happened to me?” the dragon cried out.
“No, it’s not permanent. My mom said most people get their memory back after they recover 
from their injuries, so I bet you will too.”
“I do feel better today than I did last night, but everything is still really fuzzy.”
“What’s the last thing that you remember?” Emalyn asked.
“I remember the names you call each other by… Kevin and Emalyn.”
“Do you remember anything further back than that?”
“No,” the dragon replied as she looked around, hoping that something would seem familiar 
to her.
“Well, we can’t keep calling you ‘dragon’ all day long, so is there a name that we can use 
until your memory comes back?”
“You can pick one for me since you were kind enough to take me in.”
“Do you like the name Sparkle? It matches your iridescent scales, when you’re not hiding,” 
Emalyn smiled.
“It’s cute… do you have a suggestion? She asked as she looked at Kevin.
“How about the name Splinter, since we found you under a pile of splintered wood?”
“I like that, what do you think Emalyn?”
“I like Sparkle a little more, but it’s up to you to choose a name that fits you best.”
“I think cutesy names are fine for stuffed dragons, but we’re tough, and our name should 
reflect that… so I think I’ll go with Splinter.”
“Hey, you just said dragons are tough,” Kevin remarked. “That’s a memory from your past. 
Do you remember anything else about dragons?”
“I do… I know that there are three types of dragons; Water Dragons, Fire Dragons, and 
Pigmy Dragons, and I know I’m a Pigmy Dragon!” Splinter announced with pride.
“See, your memory is coming back. What else do you remember about the different types of 
dragons?” Kevin asked, not only to help her to remember more about her past, but so he and 
Emalyn could find out more about dragons in the process.
“I know that Water Dragons are very elusive and they only come ashore to lay their eggs 
and care for their young. I remember being told that Fire Dragons went extinct in medieval 
times… but I don’t remember why.”
“Do you have any memories that might explain what happened to you?” Kevin asked.
“No… I think I have a brother, but it gets fuzzy when I try to remember anything else about 
him,” Splinter sighed.
“I’m sure it will all come back to you,” Kevin said in an encouraging tone as he gently 
patted her on the head.
“I hope so,” Splinter remarked as she took another piece of jerky out of Emalyn’s hand.
“Kids?” Josephine called out. “It’s time to pack-up. We have to head back home soon.”
“Okay mom,” Kevin yelled back as he glanced down at Splinter for a moment. “Emalyn and 
I have to leave… but you are welcome to come with us if you want to?”
“How far away do you live?”
“We both live in the same small town just north of Denver, which is a little over an hour’s 
drive from here.”
“That doesn’t seem too far away,” Splinter remarked as she looked at Emalyn for a moment.
“If you come with us, Kevin and I can take care of you until your memory comes back. 
Then you can decide what you want to do after that,” Emalyn suggested.
“Okay, I’ll come with you,” Splinter agreed.
“There is one thing… you need to keep out of sight because most people think that dragons 
are mythical creatures, and those that don’t, think they went extinct just like the dinosaurs. So 
you can’t let anyone see you including my parents, at least until I have a chance to tell them 
about you, and the same goes for Emalyn’s family,” Kevin warned.
“Okay, I’ll be careful and stay hidden when there are any other humans around,” Splinter 
promised.
“Kids, let’s get going,” Josephine called out again. Splinter changed color so she wasn’t 
visible, and Kevin wrapped her in his jacket before headed back over to the campsite.
Once everything was loaded back into the truck, Kevin put his jacket on the back seat, and 
he and Emalyn hopped in.
“Did you have a fun trip?” Josephine asked as they pulled out of the campsite.
“It was really fun, and I don’t think Emalyn and I will ever forget it.”
“That’s for sure,” Emalyn remarked under her breath.
“I’m glad you both enjoyed it,” Josephine smiled.
“Thanks for inviting me, I had a really great time.”
“You’re welcome, and if you want to come with us the next time we go camping, we would 
love to have you,” Josephine added before turning back around in her seat.
“That was nice of your mom,” Emalyn whispered.
“Yeah, she’s pretty cool,” Kevin admitted as he looked out the window as they passed by 
the lake.
Once they got back out on the highway, Kevin played games on his phone, while Emalyn 
drew pictures of dragons in her notebook to pass the time.
When they arrived back at Kevin’s house, Emalyn helped Kevin take his things up to his 
room and then said good-bye to Splinter.
“Don’t worry, I’ll bring her by tomorrow,” Kevin promised. “And once she knows where 
you live, she can fly back and forth as long as she remembers to stays hidden,” Kevin added as 
he looked down at her for a moment.
“I know, I can’t be seen by anyone other than you two,” Splinter remarked.
“I just want you to be careful now that you’re staying in a city.”
“I will be, don’t worry.”
After Emalyn had left, Kevin cleared a spot on the top bunk of his bed so Splinter would 
have a place to sleep.
“You sure do have a lot of stuffed animals,” Splinter remarked.
“Yeah, I collected them when I was younger, and now I’m reluctant to get rid of them 
because they have sentimental value.”
“What is that?” Splinter asked since she had never heard that word before.
“It’s something that’s special because of the memories that are tied to it.”
“Oh…” Splinter sighed as she looked away for a moment.
“Don’t worry, you will get your memories back, and even if you don’t, you’ll make new 
ones,” Kevin promised as he gently patted her on the side.
Chapter 4
Over the next few days, Kevin and Emalyn took turns watching over Splinter while she 
adjusted to living with them in the city. When no one was around, they played games with her, 
and comforted her whenever she was sad or after a memory fragment raised more questions than 
it answered.
“Kevin, I notice some of your stuffed animals look like dragons, and you seem to have a lot 
of books about dragons... why is that?”
“I have been fascinated with dragons long before I met you,” Kevin admitted.
“If you thought we were extinct, then why would you care about us?” Splinter asked, not to 
be rude, but because she didn’t understand why he would take an interest in a lost race.
“I don’t know, dragons are cool, and I feel connected to them in some way.”
“I noticed your mom wears a dragon pendant and your dad has a dragon tattoo on his arm. 
Do they feel connected to us in some way?” Splinter asked.
“I’m not sure... my parents are descendants of a tribe called the Celts, and from what I have 
read, they revered dragons.”
“Well, that should make it easier for you to tell them about me.”
“Yeah, I was thinking about doing that pretty soon, since I don’t like to keep things from 
them. I just wanted to see if your memory would come back first, that way it won’t be an issue if 
they won’t let you stay,” Kevin remarked.
“I’ll let you decide when it’s the right time to tell them about me, I just don’t want you to get 
into trouble is all.”
“I will take full responsibility for my actions, and accept the punishment if there is one,” 
Kevin insisted as he changed into his pajamas before getting into bed.
“I appreciate you and Emalyn helping me,” Splinter remarked as she curled up on the part of 
his pillow that he wasn’t using.
“You know you have your own bed,” Kevin smiled.
“Emalyn lets me sleep next to her when I stay with her.”
“So she doesn’t mind sleeping next to a dragon with hotdog-breath?” Kevin asked as he 
tickled her side.
“My breath is minty fresh, see…” Splinter replied as she exhaled in his face.
“Why is your breath so fresh?” Kevin asked with a suspicious look.
“I saw the mint flavored paste in your bathroom, and I tried it.”
“You’re not supposed to eat that, it’s for brushing your teeth so you don’t get cavities.”
“Are you sure? It’s pretty tasty stuff.”
“Please don’t tell me you ate very much of it, otherwise you might get sick,” Kevin asked 
with a concerned look.
“No, I only licked a little of it off the brush you squirted it onto,” Splinter admitted.
“Eew, you licked my toothbrush?”
“Yeah… I pre-moistened it for you,” Splinter snickered.
“That’s gross. Now I have to get a new toothbrush and brush them again,” Kevin sighed 
before heading back into the bathroom.
When he returned, Splinter had taken most of his pillow, forcing him to make do with the 
corner of it. He knew he could have moved her over, but she was so darn cute, he couldn’t bring 
himself to do it.
The next morning, Splinter poked him with her tail to wake him up.
“I thought dragons liked to sleep in,” Kevin moaned.
“You’re not going to believe it, but my memory came back!”
“Really?” Kevin replied as he rubbed the sleep out of his weary eyes.
“Yeah… and I remember everything that happened to me.”
“You do?”
“Yep, but I have to start at the beginning, otherwise it’s not going to make any sense to 
you.”
“Okay,” Kevin replied as he sat up in bed and waited for her to begin.
“Remember when I said that Fire Dragons went extinct… well, the sad truth is that there 
was a war between them and the humans, and when it ended, so did their reign. I’m not blaming 
your ancestors, or anyone else, I’m just telling you what happened so you will understand what 
happened next.”
“Okay,” Kevin nodded with a look of concern in his pale green eyes.
“After the war ended, the Water Dragons and Pygmy Dragons agreed to never have any 
contact with your species from that day forward. It’s known as the universal law of dragons, and 
that’s why your species thinks that all dragon went extinct after the middle-ages, not just the Fire 
Dragons.”
“That makes sense,” Kevin replied.
“In order to make sure every dragon followed the law, the dragon elders made the penalty 
for breaking it very harsh. Regrettably, my brother and I got caught breaking the law, and we 
were taken before the Dragon Council atop Castle Mountain to be sentenced for our crimes. 
Even though we only broke the law to save another, we were given the full sentence, which 
seemed unjust. So when the thunderstorm distracted the elders, my brother and I escaped. As fate 
would have it, the tree that my brother and I hid in was struck by lightning, and the next thing I 
remember was waking up in your arms.”
“If going back there puts you in danger, you can stay here with us and no one ever has to 
know.”
“I would love to stay with you and Emalyn, but my brother Striker is still out there 
somewhere, and I can’t just leave him on his own. If he was recaptured, then he will be severely 
punished for his crimes,” Splinter replied with a look of regret, and fear.
“If you only broke the law in order to save another dragon, then why would they insist on 
punishing you?”
“We didn’t do it to save a dragon,” Splinter admitted. “It was a human child…”
“What happened?”
“A little over a week ago my brother and I saw a little boy slip and fall into the lake. At first 
we thought his parents would come get him when they heard him cry, but he must have hit his 
head because he didn’t make a sound. When we realized that he was going to drown if we didn’t 
help him, we immediately flew over and pulled him to the shore. As soon as we got him turned 
over so he could breathe, he suddenly woke up and saw both of us as clear as day. What we 
didn’t know at the time was that an elder dragon had also seen what happened and he reported it 
to the elders. My brother and I tried to explain what we did, but we were still sentenced to death 
for violating our most important law,” Splinter admitted with a look of shame.
“You were sentenced to death for saving a child’s life!” Kevin gasped.
“Dragon laws are few, but strict.”
“Why weren’t you camouflaged when you went to rescue the little boy?”
“We were, but our color reactive scales don’t work very well when we get wet, and he 
clearly saw us after we pulled him out of the water.”
“So what! No one would ever believe a little boy who claims to have been rescued by two 
dragons,” Kevin insisted.
“That’s probably true, but we still broke the law, and we may have altered the future in some 
unforeseeable way.”
“Is that what the Dragon Council accused you of?”
“Yes, they are concerned that one event might ripple out into something terrible, and my 
brother and I would have caused it,” Splinter admitted.
“That’s unfair because it assumes you were not supposed to save the child, when in fact that 
might be exactly want was supposed to happen,” Kevin argued.
“I hope that’s the case, but it won’t change the fact that we broke our most sacred law, and if 
they have my brother he will face judgement on the Stone of Punishment come dies Saturni,” 
Splinter revealed, as her eyes began to tear up.
“I’m sorry, I don’t know what that means.”
“Dies Saturni is Latin for Saturday, which is the day of punishment,” Splinter replied as she 
burrowed her head under his pillow.
“Don’t worry, Emalyn and I will help you find your brother before it’s too late,” Kevin 
promised.
“You would do that for me?” Splinter said as she peeked out at him.
“Of course, you’re our friend, and friends help each other,” Kevin insisted as he picked her 
up and hugged her.
“I could fly back there tonight, and look for him on my own so you don’t get into trouble for 
helping me,” Splinter offered.
“Don’t be silly, we want to help you. At least let me talk to my parents before you go off on 
your own,” Kevin insisted.
“What are you going to say?”
“I’m going to see if they will take us back to the lake for another camp out.”
“Are you going to tell them about me?”
“I don’t want to try and explain all this to them until we know that your brother is safe. That 
way you can stay there with him if they freak-out after realizing dragons are real.”
“Is that likely to happen?” Splinter asked.
“I don’t think so, but sometimes adults have a hard time believing in things once they have 
decided they’re not real. In any case, I need to let Emalyn know what is going on and see if she 
can come with us if my parents are willing to go back to the lake,” Kevin replied as he texted 
Emalyn.
“What did she say?” Splinter asked when she saw his phone light up a moment later.
“She has permission to go with us, so as soon as my dad gets home from work, I’ll ask him 
to take us back to the lake.”
“Thank you so much,” Splinter said as she nuzzled him several times to show her 
appreciation.
“You’re welcome,” Kevin replied.
For the remainder of the day Kevin did what he could to comfort her whenever she seemed 
anxious or upset. He could tell that she was a very brave dragon, but the thought of losing her 
brother was clearly weighing on her.
“Splinter, would a hotdog help pass the time?” Kevin asked when he noticed his dad was 
running a bit late.
“Two of them might,” Splinter replied.
“Alright, I’ll go get you two of them.”
When Kevin returned, Splinter gulped them down, and when she was done, she flew over to 
the window so she could look out at the road.
“I know it’s hard, but try not to worry, my dad will be home any minute and then we’ll have 
an answer,” Kevin said in a reassuring tone. Splinter nodded and then laid down between two of 
the stuffed dragons so she could stare out the window without being noticed.
“Is that him?” she asked when a silver truck pulled into the driveway.
“It sure is… wait here, and I’ll be right back.” Splinter camouflaged herself and then 
anxiously waited for him to return.
“Hi dad, how was your day?” Kevin asked the moment Brian walked in the door.
“Long and boring, how was yours?”
“Pretty good,” Kevin replied as he followed his dad into the office.
“Did you need something?” Brian asked when he noticed Kevin was hovering.
“I was really, really hoping we could go back to the lake this weekend for another camp 
out.”
“It’s kind of short notice.”
“I know, but this might be our last chance to go camping before school starts.”
“Did you already ask your mom?”
“Yeah, and she said it was up to you.”
“Alright, we’ll go since the trailer is still packed and you and Emalyn had so much fun last 
time.”
“You’re the best dad ever… I can’t wait to tell her we’re going camping again.”
“I would like to get an early start, so would you please tell her that we’re going to leave at 
seven in morning instead of noon.”
“I will,” Kevin replied before running up to his room so he could call her, and tell Splinter 
the good news. The minute he opened the door, Splinter flew into his arms.
“Have you been eavesdropping?”
“I can’t help it if dragons have excellent hearing… and I might have peeked out when no 
one was looking.”
“I figured as much,” Kevin smiled as he put her down so he could text Emalyn. A split-
second later she responded with a smiley face, and Kevin showed it to Splinter.
“Does that mean she’s coming?” Splinter asked, since she didn’t know what a smiley face 
meant.
“She is, and my dad wants to get there early Saturday morning so we should have plenty of 
time to rescue your brother if they have him.”
“You have no idea how much this means to me!” Splinter replied as she flew back up into 
his arms to nuzzle him again.
“I had no idea dragons were so cuddly,” Kevin chuckled as her little horns tickled the 
underside of his chin.
“I’m not being cuddly, I have an itchy spot on my head.”
“Okay,” Kevin smiled.
Chapter 5
The next day Kevin got up early so he could sneak Splinter into the truck before his dad 
came out to hook-up the trailer. On his way back, his dad stopped him at the doorway.
“You are awfully eager to go camping,” Brian remarked with a suspicious look.
“It’s my new favorite place.”
“You know, that I know, that you and Emalyn are up to something, right?”
“Dad, we’re kids, of course we’re up to something.”
“Would you mind telling me what that is?”
“It’s nothing bad, we’re just helping a friend in need,” Kevin admitted.
“An imaginary friend, or a real one?”
“Imaginary to you, and real to us,” Kevin smiled.
“Alright, just don’t get into too much trouble or we’ll all have to answer to your mother.”
“We won’t,” Kevin promised as he continued inside to get the rest of his stuff.
When he came back out, Emalyn’s mom had just dropped her off.
“Hi Kevin,” she called out when she saw him.
“Hi Emalyn, you’re early.”
“I know, I didn’t want to risk being late for such an important day.”
“Yeah, I already put you know who in the back seat,” Kevin whispered as he helped Emalyn 
put her things in the truck before getting in.
When Emalyn saw Kevin’s jacket sitting on the seat between them, she gently patted it and 
then smiled when she felt Splinter.
“What’s the plan?” Emalyn asked in a low voice.
“Splinter thinks that her brother might have been recaptured and taken back up to the top of 
Castle Mountain, so we need to get up there as quickly as possible.”
“Won’t he camouflage himself the instant he sees us? It’s not like he’s going to know we’re 
there to rescue him.”
“Splinter told me that dragons can see colors that we can’t, like infrared. So she will be able 
to spot him even if we can’t. The reason we’re going up there is so that the other dragons won’t 
try and capture her, or stop us since we are humans.”
“I hope we find him,” Emalyn replied.
“Shush… here comes my mom and dad.”
“Oh, there you are,” Brian remarked as he glanced at the back seat.
“Yep, we’re ready to go,” Kevin replied.
“I hope we have everything,” he added after Josephine buckled in.
“I’m sure we do… and if not, we’ll still have a fun time,” Josephine smiled.
“That’s true,” Brian remarked as he started the truck and pulled out of the driveway.
It took a little over an hour to get to the lake since the traffic was lighter than usual, which 
made everyone happy.
“Kevin, can you bring me the crank for the pop-up?” Brian asked after he unhitched the 
trailer.
“Yeah, where is it?”
“Under the back seat.”
“Okay,” Kevin replied as he handed Emalyn his jacket for safekeeping.
Once the trailer was ready to go, Kevin and Emalyn quickly unpacked their things and made 
their beds in record time.
“You both seem to be in a bit of a hurry,” Brian remarked.
“That’s because Emalyn and I want to go for a hike before lunch.”
“Okay, but make sure you take your cell phone and some water along.”
“I know… we were just here last week,” Kevin replied as if he already knew what to do.
“Hey, you’re lucky to have parents that care as much as your mom and I do,” Brian glared.
“I’m sorry, we’re just eager to hit the trail.”
“Alright, be safe and make sure you’re back by lunchtime.”
“Okay,” Kevin replied as he and Emalyn grabbed their backpacks and headed out.
As soon as they were out of sight, Splinter flew out of Kevin’s jacket and landed on a large 
rock just ahead of them.
“We need to hurry, if they have my brother, the sooner we get to him the better.”
“Lead the way, and you can tell us your plan along the way,” Kevin suggested.
“Alright,” Splinter replied as she took to the air. “When we reach the top, I’ll call out for my 
brother, and if he is there we’ll want to get him and leave as quickly as possible. The faster we 
act, the less time the elder dragons will have to respond to our rescue.”
“I thought the dragon law prevented them from being seen by us?” Kevin questioned.
“It does, but once they realize you guys are helping me, I doubt that will matter,” Splinter 
gulped.
“Why not?”
“Because they’re going to know you have already seen a dragon, so seeing them will no 
longer be a violation of the law.”
“What will they do once they realize we are helping you?” Emalyn asked.
“I don’t know.”
“Will we be in any danger?”
“If they think you are a threat, you could be… perhaps you and Kevin should turn back. You 
have already helped me more than I can ever repay.”
“I’m not turning back,” Emalyn replied with a determined look on her face.
“Neither am I. You are our friend, and we’re not going to let you go up there all alone.”
“Then promise me that if they start to get aggressive, you’ll turn back with or without me,” 
Splinter insisted.
“We will,” Kevin promised as he crossed his fingers behind his back.
“Good, I don’t want anything to happen to either of you,” Splinter snorted as she continued 
up the slope.
When they reached the top of the mountain, Splinter stopped and looked around so Kevin 
and Emalyn could catch their breath.
“Are the dragons using their camouflage?” Kevin asked after his lungs stopped burning.
“No, I don’t see any dragons at all. They might still be in their dens sleeping, or they may 
have gone out on a hunt.”
“Where would they be holding your brother if they have him?”
“In one of the abandoned dens on the far side of the peak,” Splinter replied as she started 
heading over in that direction.
“Striker? Are you up here?” she called out once they reached the area where the old dens 
were. When there was no reply she poked her head into one of the larger dens and called out his 
name several more times.
“Maybe they never caught him,” Kevin remarked in an optimistic tone.
“There are a few more abandoned dens across from the Stone of Punishment, but I can’t 
look,” Splinter admitted in a nervous tone, uncertain if his blood might have already been spilt 
on it.
“I’ll go,” Kevin offered when he saw the fear and sadness in her eyes.
As soon as Kevin saw that the stone was unsoiled, he turned to call them over, but much to 
his surprise, Splinter and Emalyn had been encircled by a bunch of angry looking dragons.
“Don’t you dare hurt them!” he yelled out as he hopped up on the stone so he would look 
more like an adult.
“She has broken the law!” a large blue dragon snapped in return.
“We didn’t come here to fight, we just came for her brother!” Kevin insisted. The blue 
dragon ignored Kevin’s request and turned his ire towards Splinter.
“Not only have you been seen by these humans, you have brought them to our sanctuary! 
This is an outrage!” he snorted.
“I just wanted to see my brother,” Splinter replied in a timid voice.
“Bring him out!” the blue dragon ordered so she could see him punished in front of her.
“Let him go!” Kevin ordered when he saw the frightened young dragon being dragged out 
by his horns.
“You should not even be here!” the blue dragon snarled in disgust. “Our laws are clear, and 
their crimes must be paid for in blood!”
“If you let them go, I will stay and pay for their crimes with mine!” Kevin promised.
“You’re bluffing!” the blue dragon laughed in disbelief.
“I am not!” Kevin replied as he pulled out his pocketknife and extended the blade.
“No human would ever sacrifice themself for a dragon.”
“Splinter and her brother saved a drowning boy, and if they were willing to risk their lives to 
save one of us, then I am willing to do the same for them,” Kevin insisted as he pressed the knife 
against his flesh.
“No, don’t do it!” Splinter cried out. “My brother and I broke the law, and we’ll pay for our 
crimes!”
“I won’t let you be killed for saving a child!” Kevin insisted as a drop of blood ran down his 
blade and onto the stone at his feet.
“Wait!” the blue dragon interrupted. “Are you really willing to trade your blood for theirs?”
“I am!” Kevin replied as his light green eyes started to tear up from the fear of what he was 
about to do.
“You know that your blood must be spilled on the Stone of Punishment,” the blue dragon 
insisted.
“I do, and if you let them go, I will take their place and their punishment,” Kevin promised 
as another drop of blood ran down the edge of the blade.
“Very well, let them go,” the blue ordered. Emalyn burst into tears, and then ran over to 
Kevin to try and convince him not to do it.
“Let’s just run for it,” she whispered into his ear.
“There are too many of them to risk it.”
“No, you can’t do this… your parents will never forgive me, and I will never forgive you,” 
Emalyn sobbed.
“I know it’s hard to understand, but this is what my heart is telling me to do, and there is 
another deeper feeling that I just can’t shake. It’s like the voice of destiny calling me to protect 
them,” Kevin admitted.
“What does that mean?”
“It means you have to go before they change their minds and try to punish us all,” Kevin 
insisted. 
“Alright,” Emalyn reluctantly agreed as she wiped the tears from her face. 
“You are my best friend, and I care about you more than you can ever know,” Kevin 
whispered before he pushed her away.
“I will never forget you,” Emalyn replied as she turned to leave. It was the most difficult few 
steps she had ever had to take, but she knew he was right. Striker and Splinter had saved a life, 
and if Kevin wanted to repay them with his, it wasn’t her place to try and stop him. The best she 
could do was take them with her, and protect them as he would have.
“I must admit that I did not think you would honor your word,” the blue dragon remarked 
after Emalyn and the dragons had disappeared from sight.
“I’m not afraid to die for something I believe in,” Kevin replied as he held back his tears.
“You are a very brave boy, and few are willing to do what you just did.”
“They were my friends, and they didn’t deserve to die for what they had done.”
“And neither do you, which is why I’m letting you go,” the blue dragon replied.
“You’re letting me go?” Kevin asked as if he didn’t hear him correctly.
“I never said you had to give your life for theirs, I only said your blood had to be spilt on the 
Stone of Punishment, which it has,” the blue dragon insisted as he pointed at the crimson stain at 
Kevin’s feet.
“I can go right now?” Kevin asked, stunned by what he said.
“Yes, you have honored your promise, and I have no desire to take the life of one who has 
yet to fulfill their true destiny.”
“Thank you” Kevin sighed in relief as he quickly put his knife back into his pocket and 
stepped down from the stone.
“You have a gift young man, don’t waste it,” the blue dragon warned as he and the other 
dragons moved out of the way so that Kevin could leave.
“I won’t,” Kevin replied as he ran after his friends. Whatever the gift was, it had just saved 
his life, and he wasn’t about to question it.
“Wait for me!” he shouted out when he saw Emalyn and the dragons making their way back 
through the boulder field.
“How did you escape?” Emalyn cried out with a look of shock and amazement.
“I didn’t, the blue dragon just let me go.”
“He did what!” she asked as if it was the most unbelievable thing that had ever happened.
“After a few drops of my blood fell on the Stone of Punishment, he said I could leave. 
Apparently that was all that was needed to fulfill my promise to him.”
“So he was just testing you to make sure you were really willing to trade your life for the 
dragons?”
“I guess so, and once he realized I was, he let me go.”
“Does that mean we can adopt a dragon?” Emalyn asked as she reached down and picked up 
Striker.
“If they will let us,” Kevin replied. Splinter immediately flew into his arms and nuzzled him, 
while her brother licked Emalyn on the cheek so that she would know he wanted to stay with her.
About the Series
The Dragon Adventure Series was inspired by my son and his room filled with dragon art, 
books, and posters honoring the beloved creatures. In addition, my family’s surname is of Welsh 
origin, so it seemed fitting to incorporate the Welsh dragon, Y Ddraig Goch into the storyline. I 
changed his name to Draig Gogh to make is easier for young readers to pronounce, and then 
added a host of friends to make the adventure come alive.
The rich mining history and unique geographical locations used in this series are inspired by 
real events and locations in Colorado, Wales, and Ireland. Some of the location names have been 
changed to fit the story, but anyone looking at a map should be able to identify their origin.
My hope is that this series will ignite the imaginations of readers young and old, along with 
anyone else who loves dragons. If you have any comments or questions, please feel free to 
contact me at the email address below.
Thanks again,
Ben L. Hughes
Email: kelso1900@yahoo.com <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Chapter One
AabiLynn
The sun peeked over a grass-covered hill and brought morning to Thatchman’s farm.  There was 
a bit of a chill in the air as spring forced winter out.  Thatchman harnessed his horse and prepared to 
continue plowing his field to make it ready for seed.  He still had two days of work before he could 
sow.  Thatchman finished buckling the last strap on the harness when he noticed dust rising in the 
distance.  A group of riders approached his land, and he expected they would come.  He went over to 
the hut that housed himself, his third wife, and his four children.  Three were by his first wife who 
suddenly disappeared and the other child was by his second wife who passed on about five years prior 
in childbirth.  Thatchman grabbed his spear and returned to his horse.
His third wife, Hellen-Mary, attended to the pigs along with his youngest and only daughter, 
Cara-AabiLynn.  By tradition, women of the Northern Grass Plains Tribe carried their mother’s name 
as their second name to honor the one who bore them, so Mary was the mother of Hellen and so on.
“Girl, bring the bucket of slop the rest of the way for me,” Hellen ordered as she set the bucket 
down and leaned against the fence to rest her weary and very pregnant body.
Cara hobbled her nearly five-year-old body toward the only mother she ever knew.  Cara had 
been born early which caused her left arm and leg to be stunted.  Her leg, inches shorter than her other, 
caused her to limp but since she was born this way, she knew no different.  Her arm bore the brunt of 
the deformity.  It was about half the size of the other and appeared to others to be of little use.  Cara 
hurried over to Hellen, grabbed the bucket handle with her strong hand, and lifted it into her arms with 
the help of her other hand.  For a child her size, the bucket of yesterday’s unwanted food was huge.  Its 
water slushed about the bucket as she walked the last ten feet to the gate.  Part of the slop splashed her 
brown dress which was already stained by a week’s wearing.  Hellen waddled over, holding her back 
and opened the gate to the pigpen.  Cara entered and walked across the cool muddy ground to the 
trough, and then she lifted the bucket as high as she could and poured most of the slop into the trough 
while some of it spilled onto her bare feet.  She started back with the bucket and fell as her shorter leg 
sunk too far into the mud.  Cara didn't cry, but she got back to her feet and made her way to Hellen. 
Dark mud covered her face and along with nearly every inch of her front.  Cara thought it would be fun 
to play in the mud, but she knew Hellen would disapprove.
“Look at you!” Hellen complained as she took her apron and wiped her dirt-stained face. 
Hellen questioned once she finished, “What am I going to do with you?  You are nearly as useless as 
the old sow in there.”
She motioned to the large female pig in the pen, and Cara turned and stared at the creature that 
was three times her size and what her father called infertile.  She didn't understand why they considered 
the pig useless or what the word really meant.
“I am sorry, Hellen,” Cara stated as she bowed her little head.  “I am sorry I am useless.”
The riders neared the farm, and the horses’ hooves thundered across the dirt road.  Hellen 
noticed the riders and straightened her dress and hair somewhat as Cara hid behind her.  The lead rider 
halted his horse, and the four others with him also did so in turn until they stopped behind their leader. 
The five men with swords approached Thatchman on foot.  All the riders were clad in leather from the 
band around their heads, to the vest that covered their bare chests, and to their pants and boots. 
Thatchman kept his spear at his side with the blunt end resting on the ground ready to use if the men 
decided to draw their swords.
“Bork,” Thatchman cautiously spoke as if he greeted a wolf he'd surprised in the woods who 
may be hungry.
Bork was the leader of the Northern Grass Plains Tribe which Thatchman and his family 
belonged to.  Most of the tribesmen raised horses, yaks, and/or sheep.  Thatchman was one of a few 
farmers who tilled the land.
“Thatchman, you know why I am here?” Bork questioned.
He nodded, and then he replied, “You have come to collect.”
Bork looked at Hellen and noticed the small child hiding behind her, and then he turned back to 
Thatchman and asked him, “Do you have the silver?”
“I do not,” he replied.
“That is a problem,” Bork stated.  “I cannot give you any more time.”  He scanned the area 
around the hut, pen, and field but saw no one else there.  Bork said, “I shall have to take from you 
something of equal value.”  He looked at the distant hill and then to the roads winding behind the farm, 
and then he questioned, “What of your sons?  Where are they?  They usually work the farm with you,” 
Bork spoke, and then he stated, “I could take one of them as a soldier for a year.”
“They are not here,” Thatchman said, and then he added, “They are visiting my brother.”
“Convenient, I would say,” Bork muttered, and then he stated, “Your crop is a season away.” 
He looked at the pen, and then he questioned, “What of your pigs?”
Thatchman replied, “I have four young ones and one large one.”
The day before, Thatchman sent the piglets’ mother with his sons as they headed for his 
brother’s farm a couple of valleys away.  He wouldn't give up a fertile sow, not for a gambling debt.
Bork walked over, looked over the feeding beasts, and then he said, thinking the sow was the 
piglets’ mother, “I shall take the large one for payment.”
“One moment, my lord,” Hellen spoke as she walked over to her husband and whispered into 
his ear.
Thatchman’s eyes lit up as if he had never even thought of such an ingenious idea, and then he 
said, “Bork, why not take my daughter, Cara.”
“Your daughter?” Bork uttered as he turned and looked at the young girl.  “Would you not 
prefer to give me your pig?”
Cara ran over to Hellen and hid behind her again.
Bork looked her over a second time before she hid herself, and then he stated, “She is too young 
to give to one of my older sons or soldiers.”
“Take her as a slave,” Thatchman said.  “She is a hard worker.”
“And deformed,” one of the other riders exclaimed.
“He is right,” Bork stated.  “She shall be limited to what she can do and unsightly to give as a 
wife even to one of my slaves.”
“You could always make her a breeder when she comes of age,” Hellen spoke, then turned, and 
positioned herself so that Cara stood in front of her.
“Breeder?” Bork questioned, and then he asked, “She is the fair AabiLynn’s daughter, is she 
not?”
“Yes,” Thatchman replied.  “She is my beloved’s child.”
Hellen glared at her husband when he mentioned the wife before her, and then she squeezed 
Cara’s shoulders, taking out her jealousy of the dead woman on the child.
Bork peered at the girl, not as she was but as she would be.  In the Northern Grass Plains Tribe’s 
tradition, male owners slept with their breeders to create slaves with no inherent rights.  Bork had 
wanted Thatchman’s wife AabiLynn when she first appeared in their territory, but she married 
Thatchman instead.  It created much strife between the two men until AabiLynn died.
“AabiLynn’s child,” Bork muttered to himself, and then he thought maybe Cara might turn out 
to be as beautiful as her mother.  “Are you sure you want to give up AabiLynn’s child?  She is your 
daughter.”
Thatchman glanced at his wife, and then he answered, “I am sure.”
Bork turned to one of his riders and told him, “Grab the child, and let us take her back to the 
plains.”
The rider nodded, and then he went over and scooped up the child as she attempted to flee from 
him, limping as fast as her little legs would allow her.  She kicked and beat at him with her arms and 
legs, and then she turned to her father and Hellen and screamed for them.
“Hellen!  Hellen, help me!” Cara cried out.  “Help me, Hellen!  Hellen!”  She managed to free 
herself of the rider and drop down to the ground, and then she ran to her shouting, “Hellen!  Hellen!”
Cara fell down as she overstepped her stride but quickly got back up and continued for the 
woman as she cried, “Hellen!  Hellen!”
The woman turned from her and headed for the hut, allowing the child’s pleas to fall on 
indifferent ears.
Cara cried all the more, “Hellen!  Don't go, Hellen!”  She fell again and this time Cara didn't get 
up as she shrieked, “Mamma!  Mamma!”
Hellen paused in her tracks as the maternal words left the child’s lips and rattled her very core. 
Never once had Cara called her mother.  Hellen had never taught her that name but insisted that Cara 
call her Hellen.  It allowed her to place some distance between herself and the other woman’s child. 
Thatchman’s sons were old enough that they easily called her Hellen.  Cara must have picked up the 
word from the nearby farmer’s children as she watched them play.  Hellen started to turn toward the 
child, but then she realized Thatchman had already given her to Bork.  Whatever feelings might have 
been sparked by the child’s utterance was now too late.  There was nothing she could do about the debt 
or the payment; it had been completed.  She placed a hand on her belly.  She might just be too 
emotional because of her own coming baby.  Hellen continued walking to the hut as a tear streaked 
down her cheek.  She wiped it away as she wiped the memory and the name of the child from her mind. 
Hellen placed a hand on her belly again.  She would soon have a baby of her own to replace any 
emptiness caused by the forgotten one’s departure.
When Hellen ignored her pleads, Cara turned to Thatchman and called out to him, “Daddy! 
Daddy!”
“Quiet, child!” Thatchman scolded her.  “You are no longer mine.”  He turned from her and 
walked away as he mumbled, “You were never mine.”
As both of her parents abandoned her to her fate, Cara lifted her tiny hands and wept into them. 
The rider easily picked up the child and carried her to his horse, and then he, Bork, and the other riders 
headed back toward the plains.  Cara cried herself asleep and slept the whole way back to Bork’s 
abode.
Chapter Two
Journey To Firedrake
Seven years later...
Darkness covered the land like a blanket of nighttime fancy, and the smell of horses and leather 
permeated the air as Cara held onto the back of her adopted father’s waist.  She leaned the side of her 
head against Bork’s strong back as they rode on his horse.  He was warm and comforting against the 
cool air.  Cara was still sleepy as they had rose hours before she normally did so they could take this 
important trek.  Sleep and dreams lingered with her as night and a young girl’s fantasy remained a few 
moments more.
They left the plains with three other riders, heading for a great destination.  All was grand in 
Cara’s world.  She had people who cared for her and a special place she belonged.  She couldn't ask for 
anything more.
Bork steered his horse up a hill, and she held on tightly so not to fall off on the incline.  The 
moon had long since gone, and the land waited for the sun to make its appearance.  Cara glanced back 
at the three riders following them.  One of the boys was Bork’s son, Turk, the brother she never had. 
Thatchman’s sons had mostly ignored her existence, but not Turk.  He always noticed her, always knew 
where she was.  Here with Bork and his family, she had found a place to belong, a place where she was 
needed and cared for.
Twilight broke at their backs as a red-orange light burned across the grasslands.  A horse 
neighed, and a few flying birds greeted the morning, and all was grand in Cara’s world.  She had people 
who cared for her and a special place she belonged.
She squeezed Bork’s waist as if giving him a hug and then turned her head so she could view 
the lands on their right side as they sped by.  She overheard Bork speaking to the boys before they left 
his hut.  He told them of the place they were going, that it was important, and they had to do well or 
was it, it was important that they do well at the place they were going?
A golden wren flew overhead, and Cara turned her head to follow the beautiful bird in its flight 
as it sparkled in the sunlight.  She thought when it came time for her to select a totem animal, as those 
in Bork’s family had, she might pick the golden wren.  It was free to go where it willed, but the females 
still had a family they returned to and cared for.  The time of naming a totem animal was also the time 
she was given new clothes like the leather the riders wore.  She was ready to burn her dingy tunic in a 
fire.  She had seen other children use the fire to burn their old clothes when they came of age.  At that 
time, she could...
Cara caught a glimpse of Turk eyeing her, and she sleepily and bashfully hid her face in Bork’s 
back.  She smiled, knowing Turk was with them too, and it warmed her heart to know Turk was 
thinking about her.  Cara adored him as an older brother.
She turned her head and looked again to the left side as they rode on.  The plains were so 
different than the lands around the farm she once called home.  An incidental tear trickled down her 
cheek as the day started to break up the dreams night allowed, and she quickly wiped it away before 
anyone saw.  She was to never speak unless spoken to, and she was never to cry.  Those were the rules 
ingrained in her since arriving at Bork’s hut, and Bork’s wife was the one who fiercely taught her these 
simple rules.  The rising sun finished burning the sky, and the blueness of the day appeared over them 
and with night gone, so were dreams and a young girl’s fantasy.  Cara would have to face reality until 
the sunset again and she was able to close her eyes.
All was grand in Cara’s world, but it all vanished back into her mind.  She had people who 
cared for her and a special place she belonged, but those ideas and sentiments were only in her head. 
She, after all, was only a slave, someone they would sometimes refer to as a breeder.  Cara was more 
alone with Bork and his son than she had ever been with her father, her brothers, and Hellen.  She had 
no rights as a human, no one she could emotionally depend on and though she had a place she 
belonged, she wasn't loved.
The riders moved on as did the morning, and the harsh reality of her existence smacked her 
again like one of the slaps Bork’s wife would frequently give her.  This was the world Cara lived in but 
not the one she wanted to linger in.  The time she spent in her perfect world was far too short.
She was barefoot and wore a sackcloth tunic, and no totem animal decorated any part of her 
clothing.  Cara was an object to own and order about and nothing more.  She thought of Bork as her 
adopted father, but the only thing he adopted was a harsh tone and leering eyes that seemed to want 
something from her.  Turk was still the brother she never had for he was neither a brother to her nor a 
friend only her constant tormentor.  This was the reality of Cara’s life, a reality she wished was a 
nightmare and the imaginary world she envisioned was the real one.  She believed there had to be more 
in this world than pain and hardship.  Those would be bearable if she had joy and love but without joy 
and love, pain and hardship were becoming more intolerable with each grim day.
Days later...
“I am not afraid of any dung smelling warlock,” Barman said as he rode on horseback along 
with his two friends.  He wore a brown leather vest over his young bare chest.  He also wore leather 
pants and boots.  A silver plains horse decorated the back of his vest, and his long black hair was held 
back out of his eyes with a leather band that also had the same silver plains horse decorating the front 
of it.  The others wore similar attire, but a different totem animal decorated their clothing.
The Northern Grass Plains Tribe were led by chieftains, and Bork was chief of chieftains.
“Are you sure about that?” Turk questioned.  He was the oldest of the three boys.  He was 
sixteen and they were fifteen.  A gold grass tiger adorned the back of his black vest and band.  His hair 
was blond and flowed down his back.  Turk said, “You have heard of the leviathans that those of the 
Stygian Legion ride.  Do not tell me you are not afraid to face one of those malicious beasts.  I know 
better.  I have seen you face a hairless wolf pup when one happened upon our path.  You nearly soiled 
yourself before you ran away from it.  I laughed so hard as I watched the pup chase you that I nearly 
soiled myself.”
“You cannot judge me for that,” Barman insisted.  “I was five at the time, had no weapon, and 
the pup was very hungry.”
“I know,” Turk chuckled.  “It gnawed on my hand the whole way back to my hut.”
“Whatever happened to it?” Barman questioned.
“I traded it for a dagger with one of my neighbors,” Turk replied.
The riders had left the boundary of their home of the Northern Grass Plains days ago, and they 
had entered the Forest of Pinus.  Less than an hour ago, they had left the Forest of Pinus and entered 
Wyvern the Dragonlands, and they had not seen a tree or shrub since doing so.  They rode through a red 
and orange canyon as the sun broke at their backs.  The third friend, Cyan, nudged his mare to catch up 
to the other two boys, and the mare whinnied.  He wore light brown leather with a silver grass hawk as 
his totem animal.  Ahead of them rode Bork with Cara as his passenger.  His father was a large 
muscular man, and Turk was a slightly smaller version of him.  Bork also led their pack horse.
“If I had a dragon under me, I would not be afraid to face a warlock or his leviathan,” Barman 
insisted as he glanced back at the broadsword safely tucked in his bedroll.  “I have my steel and the 
dragon its claws and magic.”
“We are talking about leviathans,” Turk said.  “They are huge.  I heard as big as a tower.  Their 
hide is as black as the darkest pit, and they can swallow...”  He looked at Cara, and then he continued, 
“They can swallow a girl whole.”
Cara glanced back at the comment, but she said nothing at his teasing.  She did look frightened 
as if his tale planted a deep rooting seed of fear within her.
Bork glanced back as the sun burned the horizon, and he barked, “We are late.  Let us pick up 
the pace.”
He kicked his horse, and it galloped off.  Bork’s leather was ashen in color, and it was marked 
by a totem of a great white grizzly bear.  Turk and his friends followed closely behind Bork as the 
canyon path started to narrow, and the horses moved and formed a single file.  Turk followed his 
father’s pack horse, Barman him, and Cyan brought up the rear.  Turk removed a bota filled with water 
and took a drink.  He was hot and noticed he wasn't sweating.  The dry air of the region consumed any 
moister.  Turk already missed his home and the cool breezes that would greet him of a morning.  Here, 
the wind was harsh and filled with sand.
“Are you saying you would not be in the least bit afraid to face a leviathan?” Turk continued 
questioning his friend.  “You know they bare their teeth right before they gobble you up.  I believe they 
call it death’s smile.”
She glanced back at him again.  Her light blue eyes looked a little more frightened.  She noticed 
he saw her glance, and she bowed her head and turned back around.  The trip so far had been long, and 
Cara wasn't used to riding on a horse.  Her backend hurt, and she prayed for the trip to end.
The path through the canyon veered, and the sun moved to the left of them.  The wind 
continued to harass them, and the sun beat down on them.  Shade was a welcomed and yet fleeting 
friend.
“Why do you keep asking me about the leviathans?” Barman questioned, then he stared at her, 
and he asked, “Or are you trying to get a fear-filled response from someone else?”  He noticed Turk’s 
reaction to his inquiry, and Barman stated, “You are.”  He chuckled and said, “You do like to be a 
tyrant even when we are away from home.  I pity any girl you take for your wife.”
Turk ignored him, turned in his saddle, and asked his other friend, “What do you think, Cyan? 
What would you do if you faced a warlock and his leviathan?”
“I...” he started to answer when movement in the sky distracted him.  Cyan shaded his eyes and 
glanced up, but whatever it had been had already flown away.
They heard a scream of a dragon in the distance and seconds later, a large green gold-speckled 
one flew over them a second time.  Athenia Dragons had four legs, a pair of wings, and a tail, and their 
scaled hide came in an array of colors.  The flying dragon returned and flew just above the canyon. 
The green dragon kicked up a torrent of wind through the path as its wings flapped to keep itself 
hovering above them.  Sand flew up and blasted the faces of the group more than it had in the past. 
Bork halted his horse.
A dracoman yelled down to them, “Are you Bork, chief of the chieftains of the Northern Grass 
Plains Tribe?”  The dracoman wielded a large shield and spear, but he didn't sit on a saddle.  It appeared 
that the dragon’s body had swallowed part of his.
“Yes,” Bork shouted back.
“Proceed with haste,” the dracoman ordered them.  “The birthing is about to begin.”
“We shall,” Bork yelled and muttered under his breath, “Blasted dracoman...  We would have 
been there if he had not stopped us with his dragon’s cyclone.”
“I shall meet you there,” the dracoman yelled, and then he turned his dragon and headed back.
Chapter Three
The Birthing
The group pressed on and the path ended at Firedrake, the north-east nests of the dragons.  The 
large open area formed an enclosed half circle, and the caves laid beyond that.  Some distance from the 
caves was a stable, and they quickly rode to the structure.
Bork dismounted his horse as Cara slid off behind him.  He tied up his horse at the watering 
trough.  Inside the stable, several horses and other riding animals could be heard moving about their 
stalls.
“Hurry, girl,” he said.  “We are late.”
“Yes, master,” Cara replied as she limped to their pack horse and started unloading the 
equipment.  She was twelve now, and it was her first time leaving the tribal lands, so she peered around 
at the strange land of the dragons.
Bork brought his son and his two friends to participate in the Dragon Rite.  She was there to 
prepare their meals while they stayed at Firedrake.  The first few ceremonial acts would take about five 
fortnights.
The dracoman, who had spoken to them earlier, approached as he told them, “You must come 
now.  The queen has already started her birthing pangs.  Quickly, this way!”
Bork started after the dracoman, paused, and shouted, “Fetch the gifts, girl.  The rest of our 
items you can unload later.  We are late for the first act of the Dragon Rite.  Turk, Barman, and Cyan, 
come with me.  The queen shall soon lay her eggs if she has not already.”
“Yes, father,” Turk replied.
The three boys dismounted, removed their swords from their bedrolls, and followed Bork, and 
he led them toward the caves.  Two large dragons guarded the entrance.  They were tall, three horses 
high, and winged.  One dragon was the color of bronze and the other was teal.
“I shall leave you here,” the dracoman spoke.  “I need to return to my patrol.”
He walked off without another word.
The teal colored dragon carefully eyed the four of them, and then he said, “Dragon Elder Duran 
awaits you, Bork.  You need to proceed with haste to the Ritual Room.  The first act of the Dragon Rite 
is about to begin.  It cannot be delayed.”
“We shall hurry,” Bork replied, and then he started in and paused.  “Blasted!  Where is that girl? 
We need the gifts.  Useless girl!  Turk, go see what is keeping her.”
“Yes, father,” Turk answered, and then he hurried back to their horses as the others continued 
into the cave.
At the stable...
Cara was having difficulty undoing the buckle to the pack.  She finally unbuckled it and 
removed the wooden chest from the pack.  She held the chest in her left hand and started toward the 
caves when something caught her eye in the sand.  She reached down, picked up a bloodstone the size 
of a walnut, and examined it as she said, “This is pretty.”
“What is taking you so long, wench?” Turk barked as he approached her from her blindside.
Startled by his sudden appearance, she looked up, saw his angry face, and clasped her hand 
around the bloodstone to hide it from him.  If he found it, she wouldn't be allowed to keep it but that 
wasn't the only thing she feared from him.  Trepidation ransacked her heart like one of the great 
tempest that ravaged her homeland, and she pleaded, “Forgive me, young master.  I could not–”
He walked up and backhanded her as he yelled, “Do not give me excuses!”
She held her reddening face, but his reaction was mild compared to other times.  The sting of 
the strike made her pause as fear of what he might do next whirled in her mind.  Cara chose her next 
words carefully and made them few as she spoke, “Forgive me.”
He grabbed the wrist of her stunted arm and jerked her toward him, and she nearly dropped the 
chest.  She caught it with her right hand as he squeezed bruises that were already days old.  The veins 
in his neck bulged with his targeted wrath as he started to yell, but then two dracomen walked by.
Turk leaned in close and whispered to her, “There is no forgiveness for you, wench.  Now hurry, 
before my father yells at the both of us.”
Once he released her, she ran as fast as she could.  He jogged beside her, and they passed the 
two dragon guards.  The dragons eyed them but said nothing.  They proceeded further in, and Turk 
didn't let up on her.
“You are so worthless!” he yelled.  “I do not understand why my father keeps you.  You are 
slow, ugly, and incapable of doing any real work, and I am the one that has to hear it when you fail to 
do your duties.  Wench, go faster.”
“Yes, young master,” Cara said as she hurried even more to the point of almost falling over in 
her awkward gimp.  She never understood the rage he had toward her.  He never treated the other 
slaves as he did her.  She wondered why she was any different.  Maybe it was Bork’s wife who 
influenced her son’s wrath.
They hustled through a tunnel, and the air cooled the deeper they went.  Wooden torches along 
the walls lit the way.  He moved in behind her and watched as she rushed in her graceless gait.  They 
were moving too slow and this enraged him even more.
“Look at her,” he muttered to himself as his anger turned to loathing.  Look how weak she was. 
His tribe was a proud tribe and a race of warriors.  He didn't understand why her parents allowed her to 
live or his father.  Even if she was a girl, she represented his tribe.  How could they show their faces 
with such weakness at their side?  When he became the tribal leader, all of that would change.  No 
feebleness would be allowed.
Upon entering the large cavern of the Ritual Room, Turk removed his sword’s scabbard from 
his belt and tripped her with it.  She fell sprawl out, and the lid of the wooden chest came open, its 
contents spilled out, and three marbles made of gold clanged to the stone floor.  Everyone in the room 
turned at the sound.
Three candidates from each of the other four tribes were assembled along with Bork, Barman, 
and Cyan.  The other candidates were about the same age as Turk and his friends.  The chief of the 
chieftains of each tribe or the second highest ranking chieftain was there.  There were also four 
Venetian Red Scribes to record the event, and Dragon Elder Duran and two other dragon elders waited 
patiently.
Stalagmites and stalactites filled the Ritual Room that was not only lit by torches but by several 
basket-shaped cast iron fire stands.  The stone path led down into a white sandy area.  The sand had 
phosphorescent microbes living in it and anywhere where darkness prevailed, the sand glowed a light 
green.
“Blasted girl!” Bork blurted, embarrassed by her.
Barman and Cyan snickered as Turk came their way with a big grin on his face.  He was pleased 
that his intention just to trip her up had also caused her great embarrassment.  His father will be furious 
with her, and maybe his father would pay less attention to her.  Turk’s mother had whispered many 
things to Turk about this slave, and it had infuriated him since he was a boy, so he mistreated her for it.
Cara looked around at the many male faces staring at her, and her face flushed as she quickly 
picked up the gold marbles and placed them back in the chest.  She hurried to Bork, and the sand was 
cold to her bare feet.
“Take them to the elder,” Bork ordered.
She turned and timidly approached the large yellow dragon.  She had never met a dragon 
before, and she had never met anything so big.  He looked as if he could swallow her whole if he so 
chose to.
“Are these the gifts?” Dragon Elder Duran questioned her as he stared at the wooden chest.
She couldn't look him directly in the face, and she nodded.  The dragon smelled of earth, and 
his feet were as large as her body.
Dragon Elder Duran motioned beside himself with his head as he instructed her, “Place them 
into the Bestowal Basin.  It is located on the raised area known as the Middle Ground.”
She searched the area he motioned to and saw a shallow silver bowl on a stalagmite that had 
been cut into a pedestal.  The Bestowal Basin was positioned halfway between the Ritual Room and the 
Quickening Chamber where the dragon queen paced.  There were also several dragons standing guard 
over their queen within the Quickening Chamber.  Cara moved from the Ritual Room toward the center 
of the great cave to the point the dragon had motioned to.  The Middle Ground consisted of a circular 
dark gray stone platform that had three steps going up to it.  The stone was big enough that several 
dragons could stand on it.  She moved up the steps to the pedestal as the dragon came up behind her. 
The Bestowal Basin was so large that both of her arms would only encompass half of it.  She was 
barely tall enough to look inside.  She got on her tippy toes and saw twelve gifts within.  There were 
three rubies, three silver coins, three diamonds, and three emeralds.  She placed in the three gold 
marbles, and the bloodstone she had been holding in the same hand also fell in, so Cara reached in and 
retrieved it.  She started back to her master.
Dragon Elder Duran saw the glint of red before she scooped it out of the basin.  He knew how 
some humans liked to take things that didn't belong to them, and he couldn't allow her to steal one of 
the gifts, so he said, “Wait, child.  What did you retrieve from the Bestowal Basin?  I do not think it 
belongs to you.”
She tilted her head as if she didn't understand his question, so he rephrased it by saying, “What 
are you holding in your hand?”
“My hand?”  She paused, opened her palm, and showed it to him, and then she replied, “Only 
this.”
He noticed what he thought was a ruby, and Dragon Elder Duran warned her, “All gifts are to 
go in.  You may not remove them once they have gone into the Bestowal Basin.  You must return the 
gem.”
She would have argued that it wasn't part of the gifts or a gem, but she was too afraid to do so. 
She quickly turned, went back up to the pedestal, dropped the bloodstone in, and rushed back to her 
master.
Bork leaned down to her and whispered, “Girl, did the elder catch you stealing?”
“No, master.  I–”
“Quiet...” he ordered, then straightened, and said, “Blasted girl...  I shall deal with you later.”
Syllabary, one of the Venetian Red Scribes, stepped forward and said, “Now that we have all 
gathered, please follow me.  The dragon queen is this way in the Quickening Chamber.”
He and the other scribes wore scarlet robes embroidered with gold.  They held a Convey Scroll 
and Blazing Quill, and a leather satchel rested at their side.  They walked up a ramp of rock to a raised 
area ten feet up from the ground called the Observers Dais just beside the Middle Ground.  From this 
advantage point, they could see everything within the Ritual Room, the Quickening Chamber, and 
especially the Middle Ground.  The Venetian Red Scribes went and stood on top where they could 
witness the Dragon Rite, but they were still out of the way.  The dragon elders joined them on the 
Observers Dais and stood behind the Venetian Red Scribes near the back wall.  The four Venetian Red 
Scribes formed a line close to the edge of the Observers Dais, facing the Middle Ground and once they 
were all in position, they began.
“Expositus!” the scribes shouted.
Each of their scrolls magically lifted from their hands, unrolled, and hovered in front of them. 
The Convey Scrolls were created from the bark of a Floating Tree of Amber and endowed with magic. 
Whatever the scribe wrote on it would be there one moment, and then it would be whisked away to 
their Chronicle Tome located in the Scribe Hall in the Capital of Athenia.  Their accounts would remain 
in the Tome that not even fire could destroy.  The Blazing Quill was also magical and never ran out of 
ink, and it was made from a sphinx feather and glowed when in use.  They started writing their account 
of the first ceremonial act, and the blazing light from their quills lit their faces.
The area filled with the noise of the candidates and their patrons as they all walked to a 
connecting cavern called the Quickening Chamber.  There, the dragon queen labored in the middle of 
laying her first egg.  She was three times the size of a dragon elder who was twice the size of an 
average Athenia Dragon.  The dragon queen grunted and growled with her pain-filled efforts.  Her 
vocal exertion frightened a few of the candidates as they formed a line nearly shoulder to shoulder so 
that they could watch.  For most, this was their first time participating in the Dragon Rite.  They 
quieted and watched the dragon queen.
The Quickening Chamber was very warm as steam from small pools of hot springs mixed with 
the cold air of the caves.  The dragon queen continued to labor in the birthing and soon produced her 
first egg.  The egg popped out covered in a yellowish-green substance that slid down its surface until it 
collected in a small pool surrounding the egg and seemed to keep it from rolling around.  The first egg 
was massive, as tall as a boy, and it was murky-black.  It was so black that it looked like to Cara as if it 
consisted of the Void itself.
“Dragon Elder Duran–” Syllabary began as he stepped back from the line of scribes to the back 
wall where the dragons stood.  His Convey Scroll followed him as he moved, and it floated behind him. 
Syllabary leaned to the yellow dragon and said, “–that egg is unusually large.”
“It is,” Dragon Elder Duran replied.  “I have never seen one its size before.  Maybe it is a good 
sign.  Let us hope our queen can lay a female egg among this clutch.  We are in need of a young queen. 
As the smallest of all the dragon nests, we have only one queen, and she is nearing the time when she 
shall stop laying.”
“What about the other nests?” Syllabary inquired as he took up writing again with his Blazing 
Quill.  “Can they give you one of their queens?”
“At the moment, they have none to spare.  Perhaps when the beginning of this Dragon Rite is 
complete and there are no females among the hatchlings, you can go to the other nests and see if you 
can find a queen for us.”
“Maybe I shall.  I could use a journey and see country that has some green in its hue.  Though 
as much as I would like to go, let us pray your queen produces an heir.”
Next, the dragon queen laid an egg that was half the size of the first and copper in color.  The 
third egg was the same size as the second and purple.  The fourth egg was the same and light blue.  The 
dragon queen paced the area as her labor pains increased.
“Maybe there is another large egg,” Syllabary stated.
“Perhaps,” Dragon Elder Duran said.  “Or perhaps it is something else.”
With great difficulty, the dragon queen finally laid the last egg.  It was small, very small.  The 
egg was the size of a melon and pale in color.
“This is vexing,” Syllabary said as he stopped writing.  “Is something wrong with the egg?”  He 
moved, walked down the rocky ramp as his scroll followed, walked around the Middle Ground to the 
Quickening Chamber, and drew near the dragon queen first and once there, he rubbed her nose.  He did 
this to make sure she wouldn't act violently toward him when he approached her brood.  Syllabary then 
examined each of the eggs and came to the smallest one.  He spoke, “It has a crack.  The small egg may 
never hatch.”
“Perhaps...” Dragon Elder Duran began.  He had followed Syllabary and also looked over the 
clutch.  Duran said, “There are no spots on any of the shells.  The eggs are all male.  Let us begin the 
first act of the Dragon Rite.”  He turned to the boys gathered and commanded them, “Candidates select 
an egg.”
Bork leaned to his son and told him, “Remember the plan and act with your head.  If you do 
this, then maybe at least one of you can become a dracoman.”
“Yes, father.”
The majority of the boys, including Turk, rushed to the large murky-black egg.
His two friends followed, and Turk turned to them and ordered them, “Choose a different egg. 
If we spread out, then maybe at least one of us shall bring honor to our tribe.”
They did as he told them.  Barman went and stood by the purple egg, and Cyan went and stood 
by the light blue one.  Out of the fifteen candidates, six stood around the large murky-black egg.  Three 
candidates stood around the copper, three around the purple, and three around the light blue one.  None 
stood by the small damaged pale egg.  The boys started stroking their selected eggs and talking to them.
The girl asked Bork, “Master, what happens if no one chooses the small egg?”
“I do not know.  Now be quiet, girl,” Bork snapped, and then he stated in a low voice, “What a 
waste?  One less egg for the Rite.  What a useless thing?”
Cara stared up at him as she saw the disgusted look on Bork’s face he had given her many times 
but this time, the look was directed at the egg.
Dragon Elder Duran heard her question, and he answered her, “It shall be cast out if it is not 
chosen.  It is the rule of the Dragon Rite.  It shall be abandoned to another fate.”
“Cast out?” she exclaimed under her breath.  “Abandoned to another fate?”
Cara didn't understand why they would abandon a baby because it was too small and may be 
damaged.  She glanced at her stunted left arm and leg.  Was the egg considered useless like her?  Did 
the world also consider this tiny egg unworthy of care and love?  She wondered if they would get rid of 
him because he was different just as her parents had gotten rid of her.  Cara had been cast out from her 
family, and she had been abandoned to a horrible fate.  No other living thing should have to go through 
what she had.  Cara felt a twinge of compassion within her heart.  All of her life she had been the 
abjected one.  She never let it show, but Bork and his family’s harsh words and cruel actions towards 
her hurt her deeply.  Someone needed to protect the egg from the same kind of tormenting rejection.
“Are all candidates set on their choice?” Duran questioned.
“We are,” they all answered.
“It is a pity,” Duran stated as he looked over the small egg.  “We have not had a rejected egg in 
nearly a hundred years.  It shall need to be removed.  Call forth the Relegator,” he ordered.
One of the dragons, who stood guard within the Quickening Chamber, walked to one of the 
connecting tunnels and screamed a dragon call and after some time, a large man entered who wore a 
black leather mask to conceal his face.  He was bare-chested and larger than Bork.  The Relegator 
wielded a large weapon.  The weapon was made of steel, long, and had what looked like a mallet’s 
head at one end and two spear-like projections at the other end.
“Which one?” the Relegator questioned.
“The small pale one,” Dragon Elder Duran answered.
The Relegator approached the egg, then paused, and glanced at the dragon queen.  The dragon 
queen nodded to him, and the Relegator proceeded towards the egg as he gripped his weapon tightly. 
He had a wildness in his eyes as if he would break open the egg and eat it.  The Relegator lifted the 
mallet end of the weapon as he drew closer to the egg.
Cara watched in horror.  They were going to hurt the egg.  She feared he was going to smash the 
baby dragon.  Was the egg so worthless in the others’ eyes that they would allow it to be killed?  She 
frantically glanced around at the boys, wondering if none of them would select it.  She took a couple of 
steps forward.  It might be small and appear to be damaged but that didn't mean it was worthless or 
useless.  Small didn't mean he couldn't fly.
She realized the boys were too busy cooing their eggs to notice the monster of a man who was 
going to destroy the rejected one.  Cara took a few more steps forward.  The Relegator was only a few 
paces away from the egg as he stomped across the ground in his slow but determined stride.
Someone had to save the egg.  Maybe its mother would.  Cara looked at the dragon queen, but 
the female dragon made no movement to save her own child.  The dragon queen actually turned her 
back on the small egg and focused her attention on the other eggs.  The dragon queen turned her back 
on her child just as Hellen had turned her back on her.  Cara wondered if the dragon queen was like her 
father and Hellen.  Would the dragon queen simply watch as her child was..?
No!  Cara screamed within her mind.  Someone had to stop him!  Don't let the baby dragon die 
because it was unwanted.  Tears welled in her light blue eyes as she whispered, “Someone... save the 
baby dragon.  Someone must save him.”
Dragon Elder Duran noticed she moved towards the egg and turned in her direction as the 
Relegator stood over the pale egg and lifted his weapon above his head.
“Don't let him,” Cara continued to whisper.  “Don't let him hurt him.”  Tears streamed down her 
face and before she knew what she was doing, Cara had limped over to the egg and gently covered it 
with her body, closed her eyes, and screamed out, “Do not kill it!  Don't hurt this baby!”
The End- Next Click Here DR1
or go to
www.KristieLynnHiggins.com/DR1.html
Love Fairy Tales & Fantasy? Check out my complimentary books
AaBack’s Grim, BOTB Mystic Rose,
Monster of Monsters, & Dragon Rite
The first ebook or two are complimentary for each series.
                                  
Love Science Fiction? Check out two complimentary books
SOG Series
   
www.KristieLynnHiggins.com
Check out my new YouTube video series
Pop Culture Remix.
Where movies and tv collide in unexpected ways.
.
AabiLynn's Dragon Rite
#0 Dragon's Brood
Egg Hatchlings' Ritual
AabiLynn’s Dragon Rite Website
www.KristieLynnHiggins.com/DRSeries.html <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 

Published by Sylvia Day
Smashwords Edition
Copyright 2011 Sylvia Day
All Rights Reserved.
Cover art by Trish at Pickyme Digital Art
This supplemental material is a work of fiction. All names, characters, locations, and incidents 
are products of the author's imagination, or have been used fictitiously. Any resemblance to 
actual persons living or dead, locales, or events is entirely coincidental.
* * * * *
License Notes
Thank you for downloading this free ebooklet. You are welcome to share it with your friends. 
This book may be reproduced, copied and distributed for non-commercial purposes, provided the 
work remains in its complete original form and proper attribution is given. If you enjoyed this 
ebooklet, please return to www.SylviaDay.com to discover other works by this author. Thank 
you for your support.
* * * * *
Praise for the Renegade Angels Series
Praise for A Touch of Crimson
 “A Touch of Crimson will rock readers with a stunning new world, a hot-blooded hero, and a 
strong, kick-ass heroine. This is Sylvia Day at the top of her game!"
—Larissa Ione, New York Times bestselling author
“Angels and demons, vampires and lycans, all set against an inventive, intriguing story world 
that hooked me from the first page. Balancing action and romance, humor and hot sensuality, 
Sylvia Day’s storytelling dazzles. I can’t wait to read more about this league of sexy, dangerous 
guardian angels and the fascinating world they inhabit. A Touch of Crimson is a paranormal 
romance lover’s feast!”
—Lara Adrian, New York Times bestselling author
“Sylvia Day spins a gorgeous adventure in A Touch of Crimson that combines gritty, exciting 
storytelling with soaring lyricism. Adrian is my favorite kind of hero — an alpha male angel 
determined to win the heart of his heroine, Lindsay, while protecting her from his lethal enemy. 
Lindsay is a gutsy, likable woman with paranormal abilities of her own, as well as a dedication 
to protecting humanity against a race of demonic monsters. This is definitely a book for your 
keeper shelf." 
—Angela Knight, New York Times bestselling author
“A Touch of Crimson explodes with passion and heat. A hot, sexy angel to die for and a gutsy 
heroine make for one exciting read!”
—Cheyenne McCray, New York Times bestselling author
“Only Day can take a reincarnation plot and make it a gripping, touching and scintillating page-
turner. She skillfully blends a timeless tale of love lost and found. A Touch of Crimson is a 
perfect romance with excellent worldbuilding rich with angels, lycans and vampires.”
—RT Book Reviews
Praise for Sylvia Day writing as S.J. Day
“Great characters and terrific storytelling in a hot-blooded adrenaline ride. A keep-you-up-all-
night read.”
—Patricia Briggs, #1 New York Times bestselling author
“Exhilarating adventure in an edgy world of angels and demons...will keep readers enthralled.”
—Publishers Weekly
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Copyright
Praise for the Renegade Angels
SUPERNATURAL SMACKDOWN
BLACK AGNES
AUTHOR OVERRIDE INTERVIEW
MONDAY MANDY INTERVIEW
A Touch of Crimson
THE AUTHOR
The following vignette was originally posted on DarkFaerieTales.com, Sept 2011.
SUPERNATURAL SMACKDOWN
Adrian Mitchell
Name: Adrian Mitchell
Book Series: Renegade Angels
Job: Captain of the Sentinels, an elite special ops team of seraphim tasked with punishing the 
Fallen
Height: 6’3”
Weight: 200lbs (minus wing weight)
Hair Color: black
Eye Color: flame-blue
From (Location): presently headquartered in Orange County, CA
Significant Other: Lindsay Gibson/Shadoe
Signature Move: lashing out with his wings, which are impervious to mortal weapons and 
feature razor-sharp tips that slice like blades
Kill Highlights: ripping beating hearts straight out of the chest cavity, decapitation, evisceration, 
limb severing, mind warping
Enemies: Syre, Captain of the Fallen and leader of the vampires
Favorite Pastime: flying (via his wings or with state-of-the-art aircraft–he heads a cutting-edge 
aeronautics corporation) and seducing Lindsay–preferably both at the same time.
Other Facts: Aside from giving up Lindsay, there’s nothing Adrian won’t do to complete his 
mission–misdirection, torture, twisting minds into insanity, death… The ends always justify the 
means.
I remember quite vividly how I came to be here at this Supernatural Smackdown. I was working 
in my home office when Damien showed my visitor in. I glanced up briefly, intending to tell Ms. 
Day that I didn’t have time for her that afternoon when the brilliant red of her pants caught my 
eye. Flannel, I noted, before looking out the window at the beautiful Southern California 
weather. I returned my attention to her as she helped herself to one of the chairs facing my desk. 
My gaze narrowed and I tried to figure out what the atrocious pattern on her pants was.
Frosty the Snowman, I realized with more than a little horror. The woman had come to see me in 
her pajamas.
“Ms. Day,” I said, leaning back. “I know you spend an inordinate amount of time occupied with 
writing your books, but surely someone told you it’s September.”
She blew a stray strand of hair out of her face. “I know what month it is, Adrian. That’s why I’m 
here.”
I took in the haphazard way she’d clipped up her hair and the lack of makeup, and sighed 
inwardly. She could be moderately attractive when she chose to be. Apparently, I wasn’t worth 
the effort. “Well, fill me in, then. I’m busy.”
“Don’t take that tone with me,” she retorted, foolishly believing I wouldn’t hurt her if I had to. 
She’s always been too confident because I sought her out. She probably thinks that means I need 
her. “You have an appointment, and if you don’t leave now you’ll be late. They’ve already 
emailed and asked where you are.”
Setting my elbows on the armrests of my chair, I steepled my fingertips together, as if in prayer. 
I do occasionally make an attempt to update the Creator on the status of my mission, but it’s 
been a very long time since he’s paid any attention to me.
“I’m never late,” I reminded her. “At least not when I’m aware I need to be somewhere.” She, 
however, is rarely on time. In the nearly two years we’ve been working together, I’ve waited on 
her countless times.
“Don’t tell me you forgot the Supernatural Smackdown. I know Lindsay reminded you.”
The event sounded vaguely familiar. My head fell back into the headrest as I thought about it. 
“Ah, yes. I remember now.”
“Good. Now, go kick some ass.”
I savored the savage rush of bloodlust. I’d been agitated for days and was still working on 
seducing Lindsay Gibson into my bed. With sex not yet an option, a death match was the second 
best stress reliever.
“I know that look,” Ms. Day said with narrowed eyes. “Don’t forget this is an exhibition match. 
No killing.”
I stilled. “Beg your pardon?”
“You can’t kill anyone. It’s just for sport.”
“Oh, no,” I crooned softly, pushing leisurely to my feet. “If you think I’m going to put on a show 
for you, you’re as mistaken as I was when I came to you with my story instead of Kresley Cole 
or J.R. Ward.”
She tried to hide it, but she pouted a little. “That was mean. It wasn’t easy working with you, you 
know. I did my best. I’ve never worked harder on a book.”
I rounded my desk with an unwelcome twinge of contrition. For all her faults and foibles, she 
wasn’t half-bad as far as mortals went. There were times I found myself… liking her. “I’m 
sorry.”
She blinked. “Oh my god, I have to write the date and time down for posterity.”
The moment of affection faded as quickly as it had come. “Send Lindsay.”
“I can’t.”
“Why not? She’s an expert with knives, a brilliant marksman, and she’s too fearless for her own 
good. She’ll have a blast.”
“I love Lindsay,” Ms. Day said. “I would’ve broken you two up if I didn’t.”
I was infuriated by the mere thought and my wings materialized in a visible manifestation of my 
irritation. They emerged as ephemeral wisps of smoke before solidifying into alabaster feathers 
with crimson tips. I stretched them out, flexing them to shake off my increasingly volatile mood.
“See?” she breathed, her gaze soft and dreamy. “That’s why you have to go.”
I snapped my fingers in front of her face. “Ms. Day. Focus, please. Mortals aren’t supposed to 
know we’re here among them, remember?”
“This is a special circumstance. Everyone’s coming out of the woodwork for this event. They’re 
all showing off their signature moves. You’ve got to show them how you deflect bullets with 
those beautiful wings. And how they spin around you so fluidly, like a cape, when you’re in 
battle.”
“I’m not a sideshow amusement. Find someone else. Or let me kill something. Your choice.”
She looked at me with compassion I didn’t want. “You don’t how much longer you’ll have 
those,” she said gently. “Not now that you’re with Lindsay.”
There was no need to say more. I knew what I risked by loving a mortal, but I wouldn’t change 
how I felt about Lindsay even if I’d been given the option to. She was everything to me. The 
reason I pushed through every day and looked forward to every night. The reason I might one 
day lose my wings.
“All right,” I said, holding out a hand. “Give me the address.”
So here I am. Who’s ready to get wing-slapped?
The following vignette was originally posted on AllThingUrbanFantasy.blogspot.com, Oct 2011.
BLACK AGNES
Adrian Mitchell
“What’s spookier than a graveyard a night?  One full of vampires, warrior angels, and statues 
that come to life.  Sylvia Day’s Adrian Mitchell from the first book in the new Renegade Angels 
series, A TOUCH OF CRIMSON (available now from Signet Eclipse), is telling us a suitably 
scary and sexy version of the Black Agnes urban legend.” 
~ AllThingUrbanFantasy.blogspot.com
Adrian Mitchell tossed the crime scene photos on the dining table in his hotel suite, watching 
them fan outward as they slid across the glass. “We’ll be staying a while.”
The two lycans seated at the table reached for the images, dividing them between them.
Unable to look at them anymore, Adrian pivoted and walked to the massive window overlooking 
the city of Phoenix, Arizona. Fighting his unwelcome agitation, he unfurled his wings, the 
pristinely white feathers with their crimson tips emerging first as tendrils of smoke, then 
solidifying into shape. He stretched and flexed them, the only sign of his disquiet hidden in what 
would be perceived by the lycans as a simple bid for comfort.
“Black Agnes,” one of them said behind him.
“Excuse me?” Adjusting the angle of his position, he looked at the two men examining the 
photos. One was stocky, built for brute force. The other was taller, leaner yet stronger. He’d 
watched them work, noting their strengths and weaknesses. They were a good team and a good 
match for him. Together they’d taken down three rogue vampires in less than two weeks. He 
expected to add this latest one to their kill sheets before they headed home again.
The taller one—Elijah—lifted his head and looked at Adrian with the luminescent green eyes of 
a creature tainted with demon blood. It was that touch of demon that enabled the lycans to 
shapeshift between man and beast. It also indentured them to Adrian. “An urban legend. There’s 
a cemetery statue—two of them actually—of a hooded figure. One was rumored to have 
supernatural properties. College kids used it as a pledge to join sororities and fraternities. The 
initiate was supposed to spend the night sitting in the statue’s lap, but one of them was found 
dead in the morning, with bruises and marks that suggested the statue had come to life and held 
her until she croaked.”
“That’s not a shrouded figure,” Adrian pointed out, his voice kept carefully neutral to hide his 
roiling fury. He was a seraph, a Sentinel. He was expected to stand above the vagaries of human 
emotions. But he couldn’t fight his reaction to the pictures spread out before him, those of a once 
beautiful young woman laid dramatically upon the lap of a massive marble statue of an angel. An 
angel whose head was bowed as if weeping over the bloodless body draped across its thighs.
A taunt. An undeniable “fuck you” from the vampire who’d taken the very last drop from a 
promising life.
“No,” Elijah agreed. “This rogue is a young one. Too stupid to know better.”
Only one who was young and foolish would deliberately attract the attention of a Sentinel. 
Adrian’s mouth curved grimly. “And he’ll get what he’s asking for.”
* * *
When night fell, they split up and cruised the college parties and local hangouts. They attracted 
attention, predators prowling through gatherings of their prey. Men shied away from them 
instinctively, but the women were drawn to that edge of danger. With focused attention and 
flattery, it was easy to get them to talk. By the time Adrian regrouped with Elijah and Trent, 
they’d each gathered intel on upcoming pledge initiations, many of which now included the 
cemetery statue due to its morbid notoriety.
Adrian looked up at the moon. “Our vamp isn’t going to wait. We’re here, and now that we’ve 
canvassed his haunts he knows it. My bet would be on another strike tonight, one last show of 
arrogance before moving on.”
“The cemetery, then?” Trent asked.
“Right. Let’s go.”
* * *
Having lived for millennia, nothing surprised Adrian anymore. He’d seen everything, countless 
times. Or so he’d thought.
From his vantage in a tree a half mile away from the statue, he tracked the young couple crouch-
walking toward the massive angel, laughing softy and pausing occasionally for breathless kisses. 
He watched them reach their destination and lean against the marble in a passionate embrace. 
Her hands slid through the young man’s hair as he took her mouth with more enthusiasm than 
skill. Then he lifted her onto the angel’s lap, putting her at the perfect height for him to step 
between her legs and push up her pleated mini-skirt.
Dropping from the tree, Adrian approached carefully, eyes on the prize as he waited for a sign 
that he was dealing with more than just an ordinary set of horny college kids. He was distantly 
aware of Elijah and Trent on the perimeter, holding back to keep their scent from reaching the 
sensitive nostrils of their vampire quarry.
The girl’s head fell back with a sigh of pleasure, exposing the creamy expanse of her throat to 
the greedy slide of her boyfriend’s parted lips.
Then Adrian saw the soft amber glow of her irises.
His brow arched. Well, then.
Her furtive hand signal alerted him to the presence of the others, warning him to shift into the 
shadows of a massive tree for cover. The pack converged from points behind the young man, 
four vampresses, their fangs gleaming in the moonlight. Their gender took him aback, although 
he would later wonder why it had. Although they hid it well, females were usually more vicious 
than males.
The girl on the angel’s lap shoved her would-be lover back into the waiting arms of her laughing 
friends. Adrian engaged, darting forward, going for the victim. Catching him up in the center of 
the pack, Adrian snapped his wings free, spinning fluidly. The razor-sharp tips of his feathers 
sliced like a circular saw, halving the vampires at the waist in less than a second. As the pieces 
fell to the ground with sickening thuds, he delved into the young man’s mind and removed all 
memory of the night, resetting his recollections back to the point when he’d met the vampress at 
a frat party.
Then he faced her, the ringleader. She cowered into the arms of the angel, caged by Elijah and 
Trent in their lupine forms. But when her gaze met Adrian’s it was hot with defiance and 
swirling with madness.
  Plucking her off the statue, Adrian rifled through her memories, confirming her guilt in the 
previous attack and discovering the tragedy of her Change. She’d been caught just this way by a 
young rogue and his friends. The attack had stolen her sanity; the Change had taken her soul, as 
it did all minions. What was left behind was one of the monsters he hunted.
Nevertheless, pity stirred in his chest.
“I’ll find the ones who did this to you,” he promised softly. Then he ended her.
In the morning, several dozen white lilies were found in the lap of the mourning angel statue. 
And in the years that followed, it became known as an unusually peaceful spot, one where 
visitors felt a joyous equanimity and departed with a renewed sense of hope in the days to come.
The following interview appeared on UnderTheCoversBookBlog.blogspot.com, Oct 2011.
AUTHOR OVERRIDE
Interview with Adrian Mitchell
I’m not overly surprised to find Adrian in a pensive mood when I visit him for this interview. I 
know he’s under a great deal of pressure now, although he hides it beautifully, as always.
I find him in his office, looking out the window at the native Southern California landscape. His 
hands are clasped beneath his wings and his inky black hair touches the collar of his dress shirt, 
having grown longer over the last few weeks as his world has steadily unraveled. Those beautiful 
wings of his, so pristinely and blindingly white except for the crimson tips, reveal so much about 
him. I wonder if he realizes that. He can hide them at will and the fact that he’s chosen not to do 
so today tells me how agitated he is. They stretch and flex when he’s of a mood, the only visible 
sign he gives of how he’s feeling.
I know it’s those feelings that are exacerbating his problems now. He’s a Sentinel, after all. An 
angel created to hunt and punish other angels. He was designed and built to feel no emotion, to 
function almost like a machine. A Terminator, perhaps. One mission, one purpose, no deviations. 
But he’s deviated a lot over the years. Now more so than ever before. And he’s paid the price. 
He’s paying it even now.
“Hi, Adrian,” I say in greeting, although he knows I’ve been standing here watching him.
He faces me and I’m struck, as I always am, by the brilliance of his cerulean eyes. All of the 
Sentinels have blue eyes and he explained why when I asked him previously. The Sentinels are 
seraphim angels—the “burning ones.” The blue of their irises is literally the flame inside them. 
Pure and hot. Beautiful in an eerie, preternatural way.
“Ms. Day,” he returns, in his smooth deep voice with its unique resonance. He can compel with 
that voice, but so far he’s resisted compelling me to do anything. At least I think he’s resisted... 
“Ah, you’re dressed today. I’d almost forgotten how you look when you’re not wearing your 
pajamas.”
I grin. “Hey, it’s one of the perks of being a writer. How are you today?”
“As well as can be expected.”
“Where’s Lindsay?”
“Training.”
I nod, understanding. The woman he loves can kick some serious ass, but she’s still fragile 
compared to the vampires she hunts and the Sentinels who are training her. “Are you ready for 
the interview?”
“No.” But he moves to his desk, gesturing for me to take a seat.
His wings dissipate like mist just before he sits, which always fascinates me. They’re so much a 
part of him and yet he can tuck them away where mortals like me can’t see them.
I eye him as he gets comfortable, admiring the savage beauty of his face. He’s stunning, with a 
dark and edgy sensuality that makes him seem more fallen angel than not.
“What do you like most about yourself?” I ask.
His brows rise. He leans back in his chair and studies me in return. “Is this part of the 
interview?”
“It can be.”
“Hmm... That I can still learn, I suppose. That I can change my mind, be surprised, discover 
something new.”
“You’re evolving.”
“Yes, perhaps that’s the way to say it. After all these years... after all I’ve seen, I’m not done 
formulating new opinions of things that should be old hat to me.”
“What do you like least about yourself?”
His lips curved wryly. “How much time do you have?”
Now it’s my brows that rise. “Really?”
“Part of evolution is trial and error, and I’ve made more than my share of mistakes. 
Unfortunately, I also keep making new ones.”
“That’s part of being human,” I point out.
“But I’m not human.”
Right. I consider him further. “What haven’t you done that you would like to do?”
“Take Lindsay away,” he says without hesitation. “For a week at least, longer if we could 
manage it.”
“Where would you go?”
“She likes the water. I like the mountains.”
“So you can fly.”
“Yes.” He smiles, which is a sign of how Lindsay is changing him. “So I suppose it would be 
somewhere with mountains overlooking the ocean.”
“Something to look forward to.”
“Yes.”
“What are you most afraid of?”
“Failure,” he responds, with the same alacrity as the previous question. “Too much is riding on 
me... too many people are dependent on my getting the job done. There’s too much at stake. And 
I have Lindsay now.”
“You won’t fail.” I have no doubt about that.
“No,” he agrees with conviction. “I won’t.”
And really, that’s the number one thing there is to know about Adrian right there.
The following interview appeared on DarhkPortal.com, Oct 2011.
Monday MANdy
Interview with Adrian Mitchell
Have you ever melted a trackball on your Blackberry?
No, but I’ve crushed a few in my fist when I’ve been aggravated enough.
What is the one thing you find most interesting about mortals?
Decisions are so mutable to mortals. Sayings such as, “Rules are made to be broken.” Even when 
the lines are clear and it’s apparent they’ve been crossed, emotions guide the response to those 
transgressions as much as the law does. That fascinates me. There are so few hard and fast rules 
in mortal lives and so many reasons you come up with for why a particular rule applies in one 
instance and not another.
Looking back, now that you have Lindsay in your life, is there anything you wish you had 
done differently regarding Helena?
I’m torn by this question. Helena came to me for two things: permission to break a law and help 
in doing so. It was rather like one police officer approaching another to ask for permission to rob 
a bank, assistance with disabling the alarm systems, and then a promise that she’d face no 
consequences for the theft. Can you see how impossible it was for me to give her what she 
wanted?
There’s precedence for what could happen if I’d made a different decision. Syre was faced with 
the same situation when he fell in love with his mortal mate and he responded differently. He 
gave the Watchers permission to do as he did and the result was that they all fell, even those who 
hadn’t taken mates. He damned them all for his mistake. In his situation, most of the Watchers 
had fallen in one way or another—certainly his permission was encouragement for some—but 
my Sentinels have stayed true to their mission. Aside from Helena and me, the rest have been 
inviolate. How could I risk all of them for the transgressions of just two of us?
That said, I could have been a better friend.
I had two roles with her—leader and friend—and I focused on the first to the detriment of the 
latter. I should’ve asked for more time to think. I should never have proceeded so quickly, when 
I was still reeling from the knowledge of her fall. I wasn’t thinking clearly. Then Lindsay left 
and I was barely thinking at all. It’s possible Helena didn’t realize that I haven’t escaped 
retribution for my sins. Lindsay, too, believed I’d face the same punishment as the Watchers, but 
that’s not my fate and I’ve always known that. Losing Shadoe over and over again, losing 
Phineas, knowing I’m no better than those I’ve punished, the sacrifice Lindsay ended up making 
for me... Even Elijah’s very existence. It’s no coincidence that he entered my life at the same 
time as Lindsay, wielding the power he does over the other lycans.
My punishment is insidious, like a spreading stain, eating through everything that has meaning to 
me. Everything I’ve worked for and believed in is crumbling around me. That is my punishment, 
and I should’ve shared it with Helena, armed her with the knowledge she needed to make her 
own decision without asking me for permission.
# # #
Don’t miss Adrian’s story,
A TOUCH OF CRIMSON
Available now from Signet Eclipse!
* * * * *
Can a love that transcends death survive a war between angels, vampires, and lycans?
An angel with immense power and insatiable desire, Adrian Mitchell leads an elite Special Ops 
unit of the seraphim. His task is to punish the Fallen—angels who have become vampires—and 
command a restless pack of indentured lycans.
But Adrian has suffered his own punishment for becoming involved with mortals—losing the 
woman he loves again and again. Now, after nearly two hundred years, he has found her: 
Shadoe, her soul once more inhabiting a new body that doesn't remember him. This time he 
won't let her go.
With no memory of her past as Shadoe, Lindsay Gibson knows only that she can't help being 
fiercely attracted to the smoldering, seductive male who crosses her path. Swept into a dangerous 
world of tumultuous passion and preternatural conflict, Lindsay is soon caught between her angel 
lover, her vampire father, and a full-blown lycan revolt. There's more at stake than her love and 
her life—she could lose her very soul...
* * * * *
Signet (October 4, 2011)
ISBN-13: 978-0451234995

THE AUTHOR
Sylvia Day is the national bestselling, award-winning author of over a dozen novels written 
across multiple sub-genres. A wife and mother of two, she is a former Russian linguist for the 
U.S. Army Military Intelligence. Sylvia’s work has been called an “exhilarating adventure” by 
Publishers Weekly and “wickedly entertaining” by Booklist. Her stories have been translated into 
Russian, Japanese, Portuguese, German, Czech, Italian, and Thai. She’s been honored with the 
Romantic Times Reviewers' Choice Award, the EPPIE award, the National Readers’ Choice 
Award, the Readers’ Crown, and multiple finalist nominations for Romance Writers of 
America’s prestigious RITA Award of Excellence.
Sylvia also writes under the pseudonyms S. J. Day and Livia Dare.
Connect with Sylvia Day online:
http://www.sylviaday.com
Twitter: http://www.twitter.com/SylDay
Facebook: http://www.facebook.com/AuthorSylviaDay
* * * * * <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Chapter One
Ryker
Life. It’s a funny notion really. One minute you’re rushing to meet maturity, desperately willing 
for time to hurry, and the next thing you know an infinite amount of days, months, and years 
pass by without an end in sight. No expiration date. Just another routine to help you exist. To 
make you matter.
Driving home, my decisions on life always hit me hardest after my boots touched down on 
British soil. Was I doing the right thing? Did my brothers need me anymore? 
Touring was never easy, even when I controlled an elite team of soldiers, and service dogs. 
We were the best of the best, but that meant our missions were the hardest, and everyone wanted 
a good rescue story.
I didn’t blame them. Losing someone in hostile territory was like paying a visit to the devil. 
You sold your soul every time you returned alive, and they didn’t.
I waited at the traffic lights, whistling away to myself and my comrade as I scanned my 
hometown in the falling dark. Nero perked his ears, keeping his eyes on the locals as we sat 
idling. 
Nero, a German Shepherd, was my own personal Military Working Dog, and at the end of 
each tour we always returned together, protected each other just as we did in the field. We had 
the type of connection the humans would never understand; it ran deeper than master and pet. I 
was his Alpha, and he, most certainly, was a part of my pack.
The eager whine that escaped his muzzle was highlighted by the pounding of his tail against 
the seat. Aware of our surroundings, his joy was evident in his demeanour.
We were home.
I parked in the driveway, and with a little haste that matched my companion, hurried to greet 
my humble abode. An extended stay in the dust and sand made this place look like a palace. 
Though admittedly, after a hundred years collecting pay I supposed to some it could be construed 
as a luxury home for a man living alone. What could I say? I liked space.
Placing the key in the door, I stared at Nero who stood poised, ready to enter. With the click 
of the lock, an unfamiliar scent wafted my way, straightening my spine to awareness. 
“Heel,” I commanded, and watched as Nero sat on his haunches, waiting for instructions. I 
signalled the sign to search, and let him into the house. I canvassed the area outside, wondering 
where the origin of the sweet vanilla scent appeared. Just as it came, it disappeared, fading into 
the warm night air.
Nero barked once; it was a pre-determined indication that gave the all-clear. I shook my head 
free of the concern, wondering if my mind had remained in the war zone as I carried my bags 
into the foyer. What trouble did I expect to find here anyway?
As the night wore on, and I’d settled in, I couldn’t discard the feeling that I was being preyed 
upon, and as a hunter myself, the feeling didn’t sit well.
I stared out the window, dimming the lights that highlighted my presence, and searched once 
again for the answer to this weirdness.
I came up empty. There was nothing there besides the usual cars parked along the street. 
I shrugged. “Whatever’s out there, Nero, they have no idea who they’re spying on.” I turned 
to catch his eye, and smiled. “We’ll give the fuckers hell, once they’re ready to play.”
Chapter Two
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
Yawning. That’s what I’d been succumbed to ever since I’d been handed this assignment. I’d 
been sitting for a week, gathering intelligence, watching him day and night, and I was bored. 
Bored out of my mind by his monotonous routine every damn day. Nothing changed, not even a 
slight deviation in his timing. He was completely regimented.
While I stretched in my car as much as I could, feeling the satisfactory pull along my back, 
the sound of my phone ringing cut through the silence.
“Midnight,” I acknowledged, using my codename as always.
“Status update,” the brash, female voice demanded.
“Shower. Dinner. Workout. Oh, and here comes his evening run that always lasts twice as 
long as his morning one. Nothing changes. Nothing’s new. Just him and his dog.” I repeated like 
a robot trained with only one paragraph of vocabulary. Every debrief had been the same this 
week.
“And he still remains unaware?”
I hesitated, thinking back to the night he’d first arrived home. That had been a close call. 
“Yes, ma’am. Is this really the best use of my time though? I’m feeling caged with the lack of 
action.” I protested. The slow assignment had come as a surprise when I was so often bringing 
others to justice with the strength of my fist. Sitting on my backside was a new development for 
me.
“It sounds like you need to go for a run, too. Keep up with him, Midnight. He’s pertinent to 
the cause.”
The line silenced as the call ended, leaving me without answers once again. There were times 
I despised being somebody else’s soldier, a pawn in the grand scheme of things. It was why I 
worked so hard to gain the reputation I had for being the best agent within the Division. Orders 
weren’t always well-received; I was becoming too independent for that.
As I watched my target disappear along the pavement, I stepped out of my government-
issued car and quickly stretched, knowing a marathon-style run was ahead of me. Thankfully I 
had the lungs of a werewolf, and a love for keeping fit outdoors. Nothing would deter me now.
I pushed my feet off of the ground, finding my rhythm as I set my pace to catch up on my 
surveillance. Breathing in the clear air, I welcomed the sudden rush of endorphins penetrating 
my system. Oh, man, it felt good to finally move my legs, to release some of the week’s 
constraints.
I rounded the corner, watching my objective with his trusted sidekick enter the trail that led 
into the mountains, and followed at a safe distance knowing my scent would alert my presence. 
Though music wouldn’t have gone amiss, I knew I couldn’t afford the distraction.  Stupid 
priorities.
The scenery stole my breath, winding me from moving forward. I felt like I’d been 
transferred to a different world as a stunningly blue lake glistened below, entirely surrounded by 
the mountains. Trails of greenery led to many paths, offering spectacular views in every 
direction. How could I have been missing this all week? It was like I’d run through a magic 
portal. Nature was beautiful.
The distant sound of a bark ahead reminded me of my purpose, and I quickly hurried to catch 
up. I breathed in the beauty, feeling the quality of the crystal clear air enrich my body, and 
committed the mesmerising scene to memory. 
I instantly hoped I had time to return once the job was done.
When I eventually caught up once again, I casually kept my pace at an even jog, and admired 
the jaw-dropping view ahead. He was tall, according to my case file he was exactly 6ft 2” tall, 
and his eyes had been a piercing blue, staring at me from the paper with intelligence. 
His short buzz-cut brown hair was no doubt a mandatory requirement, but even so it 
accentuated his masculinity, highlighted his structured jaw. 
Though I hadn’t had seen him upfront in person, I knew his paperwork had barely done him 
any justice. There was something about him, a presence of some kind that followed wherever he 
went, like an aura. Perhaps it was his confidence, his self-assuredness that I connected with, but I 
was sure there was more to the man than what I’d been told, what I’d been briefed on.
His build was impressive from the glances I’d caught over the course of the week. He’d 
developed serious muscle tone in his arms and legs, and I could only imagine the solid abs 
beneath his t-shirt, rippling with yummy goodness.
The sudden quiet interrupted my thoughts, drawing my attention to what was important. I 
was alone. I’d lost sight of my target entirely despite the fact the trail ahead was clear to see. 
Where had he gone?
I called on my senses, pulling my wolf to the forefront of my mind, and allowing her to take 
over a moment. My abilities were always strongest when we worked together.
I sniffed the air, filtering each scent until I found his. It was faint, barely recognisable until a 
waft of mint carried on the wind.
I quickly turned, and paused, my breath hitched in my throat. He stood with arms folded as 
he stared at me. A hint of a smirk gathered in the corner of his mouth, and his dog, Nero, stood to 
attention, waiting on orders. Oh yes, I knew all about him.
My mind momentarily collapsed while I tried to think up an excuse. How was I foolish 
enough to get caught? I was the best at my job for a reason.
“Can I help you?” he asked, his voice alluringly low.
I felt the quickening of my pulse as my heartbeat raised, uncontrollably affected by the 
sudden rush of chemicals flooding my system. Was my body attracted to him?
I smoothed my hand over my hair, regaining my control, and implemented my usual 
professionalism. Now wasn’t the time for googly eyes and laughter.
“Just a good evening for a run,” I said, folding my arms over my chest.
His gaze zeroed in on my movements, watching the rise and fall of my steady breath. I 
cleared my throat, trying to deter his stare.
“That’s not what I mean, princess.”
I bristled at the term, he had no idea who he was dealing with. I snarled. “Don’t call me . . .”
“Princess? I think it suits you. Now answer my question. Why are you following me?”
I was about to argue some more when his question niggled my conscience. “What makes you 
think I’m following you?” I asked.
“You mean besides the fact you’ve been watching me all week?” He smirked again, clearly 
satisfied with himself. “Has my routine bored you enough yet?” He openly laughed.
“You did that on purpose?” I gasped, frustrated more than ever that I’d been played at my 
own game.
“The next time you scope out my house, try masking your scent before you leave.” He turned 
to walk away, but I instinctively reached to stop him, grabbing his arm. Electricity ran through 
me at the touch of his skin, his bicep flexed beneath me, imposing its generous size under my 
hand.
“Oh, so there is something you want, princess.”
I squinted once again at the term of endearment. I didn’t like it. It was far too pretty, too girly 
for my personality. I wasn’t anything like a princess.
“I have orders,” I began, but he interrupted immediately.
“Orders? Hmm, let me see. The army didn’t send you on account I’m on leave.” He began to 
circle around me, but I stayed rooted to the spot. He wasn’t going to succeed in intimidating me, 
when intimidation was my usual tactic. “And you’re obviously not affiliated with any terrorist 
group overseas otherwise you’d have already tried to blow me up.” His face held the deep 
concentration lines that proved how hard he was thinking; he was methodical and logical, I 
admired that.
“Which means you’re from the government. What do you want?”
I straightened my spine. “Lieutenant Colonel West, I’m Agent Knight with the Paranormal 
Division of the Secret Intelligence Service, or P.D.S.I.S for short. I’m expected to bring you in. It 
seems you have skills the Director is interested in.” I explained, keeping it short and sweet.
He laughed wildly. “Nice try, princess, but that won’t be happening, so you can pack up your 
car and return to Headquarters. Tell the Director I’m disappointed in her. She should’ve known 
better.”
I bristled. He knew the Director? Had I been played for a fool the moment the case had been 
assigned to me? Was this my penance for having a disagreeable opinion on the last job I’d 
worked?
My mind worked through a dozen scenarios, each time trying to understand how I’d 
misinterpreted the signs. What had I done wrong?
While the arsehole ran back to his home, I sulked to my car, feeling my temper bubble with 
rage. The Director owed me answers.
Chapter Three
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
“What the hell is going on?” I yelled as I stormed my way through Headquarters, ignoring the 
meerkat-like heads popping up behind the rows of computers. My mood had worsened every 
minute of the drive it took to get here. I didn’t care if my job was on the line, the Director had 
gone too far this time.
“Midnight, what seems to be the problem?” Her flowing red locks cascaded along her arm 
while her expression remained nonplussed. Was she really going to play the innocent card?
I slammed the door behind me, regardless of the fact the entire room was canvassed in glass 
where everyone could see through. I was too pissed to care if they were watching my show.
“You’ve propositioned Lieutenant Colonel West before. He’s declined before. Yet you made 
me work surveillance on him as if he was high on the agenda of requisitions. You set me up for a 
fail!” I shouted in frustration, pacing the length of her desk to and fro.
“That wasn’t my intention,” she replied, her face revealing she’d meant it. I wasn’t sure 
though. I’d gotten used to the many poker faces she was able to portray.
“Really? Because his laughing in my face makes me think otherwise.”
She pursed her lips, carefully folding her arms in slow movements. I was well aware that it 
was the sign she was on the cusp to losing her temper, but I was adamant this time. She’d made 
me feel like an idiot.
“This is ridiculous!” I threw my hands up in the air. “You blindsided me.”
“Watch it, Midnight, you’re pushing your luck. Do you feel ridiculous because I hadn’t told 
you I’d tried before, or because he called you out on it, and he made you feel foolish? Don’t 
blame others for your shortcomings. It’s not becoming of you,” she admonished as though she 
was my mother, patting my head patronisingly.
I gasped. What the fuck was she going on about?
“Sit down, shut up, and I’ll tell you what you need to know. But come here causing a scene 
like that again, and I’ll take your badge and put you on the street. Got it?”
Underneath my projected exterior I squirmed beneath the order, it almost pained me to nod 
my head and agree like a good little soldier. “Yes, ma’am.”
~
Once the Director had finished chewing on my arse for dinner I headed towards the weapons 
room, needing to throw something big and heavy. I almost turned around when I walked in to 
find my partner, Harvey Dean, working out. I just wasn’t in the mood to deal with his bullshit 
tonight.
“Kira? What brings you down here, I thought you were on a case?” He continued on his reps, 
huffing and puffing as he lifted the weight.
“I was. Some developments came in that I needed to expand with Fox,” I said, using the 
Directors last name. 
“That doesn’t sound good,” he replied, setting the bar down.
“No, it wasn’t,” I murmured to myself, turning towards the stash of weapons tucked in the 
corner of the room.
Though we were partners in the field, it didn’t always happen that we’d be assigned the same 
case, especially on a busy week. Agent numbers were low and, sadly, crime rose in the 
paranormal community every day. I never complained though, taking on a solo assignment was a 
gift from the gods, and I loved it every time. Harvey was nice enough, but that was the problem. 
He was too nice to me. All. The. Time. 
“You need help on this one?” 
I smirked at him. Really?
“Yeah, I know. Worth a shot though, right? It’s about time you slipped up and needed help 
for a change. Your reputation is making the rest of us look like couch potatoes.” He smiled, 
grabbing his towel and wiping his face.
I shrugged. “Not my style,” I said absentmindedly, grabbing the series of knives that lined 
the back shelf of the weapons cupboard.
I stepped to the line marking the ground, and began my assault of throwing knives towards 
the many targets outlined far ahead. Within seconds I was done, hitting each enemy in the heart; 
the prime kill point.
“Wow! Someone really got under your skin today, didn’t they?” said Harvey as he came to 
stand beside me, inspecting my efforts. He was a couple inches taller than my 5ft 6”, and his 
shoulder rested just above mine as he stood too close as always. And though he was as physically 
fit as the job demanded, and somewhat handsome, there was just something about him that didn’t 
push my buttons. Maybe it was his persistent efforts to please me that turned me off him, or 
maybe it was that I knew we were better off as friends, especially when it came to being on the 
field. How was I supposed to trust my partner to have my back if we’d gotten into a messy break 
up? Thanks, but no thanks. Professionalism was the key to all my relationships. He knew my 
boundaries, yet he was always trying to bend them. Like now. Personal space was personal for a 
reason.
“Well, when important information is held back it’s tough to bottle in the anger. Today I felt 
betrayed,” I groaned as I pulled each knife from the dummies, ready to go again.
“Ouch.” Harvey grimaced as a knife landed on the genital area of a mannequin, squeezing his 
junk as though he’d felt the force of the stab himself. “You see this,” he pointed to the knife. 
“This is why we’re partners and not enemies,” he winced.
I threw the remaining blades, thinking how nice it would’ve been to have had a real target to 
let my frustration out on. God knew he deserved a dagger to the dick.
“For the sake of mankind, I’m cutting you off,” said Harvey as he grabbed my hand with the 
final blade poised to launch. “Let’s go grab a bite to eat, you must be famished after exhausting 
so much energy wielding those weapons like an expert marksman.” 
He tried to steer me away, and just this once I let him. Food sounded like a great idea after 
my stomach gurgled in agreement. “I am an expert marksman,” I corrected his earlier statement.
“Trust me, I know.” I watched him gulp as he shielded his area once more. Well, if it stopped 
him from giving me the googly eyes then I was all for it.
~
Ryker
Finally calling the girl out on her spy games had felt better than I initially thought it would. 
Though it had been extremely satisfying to watch her stutter, squirm and eventually get all 
agitated, I was suddenly feeling at a loss knowing her presence had left my street. She no longer 
sat in her car at her preferential spot, watching my every move.
It was liberating to feel free again, to be able to return to my actual routine and get on with 
my obligations before the ringing bells of tour duty returned. No matter how dedicated I was, 
sometimes leave just wasn’t long enough once I’d gotten used to the downtime. 
I thrived on activity, on controlling situations under my command, but even so, a man could 
get used to a comfortable bed if he’d had a reason to stay. 
Thankfully, I didn’t.
With the loss of my evening workout, I had more energy to spare than normal, and while I 
contemplated finishing my run, my body was craving something different. Even I’d gotten bored 
of the fake routine I’d pulled this week.
For months at a time I endured the taste of sand that never escaped my mouth no matter how 
many times I brushed my teeth, and even more so sacrificed my needs as a man. I was an adult, I 
could control my animalistic urges no matter how intensified they were compared to a normal 
human being. But when I returned home, I had time to make up for. Desires that needed 
satisfying.
While I finished changing, and glanced in the mirror, the memory of the flustered agent 
popped in my mind. She’d stirred something within me that I’d never felt before, and though I 
was curious to revisit that idea, I imagined she was quite the challenge.
Tonight wasn’t about a challenge, tonight was about easy.
“Nero,” I called, waiting for his lazy arse to come join me. I needed my wingman after all, 
even if he was a dog. The ladies loved it, and as far as conversation starters went, this was 
golden.
The enticing sounds of the busy pubs nearby already had me smiling in victory, but my steps 
led me and my wingman around the corner. I couldn’t describe it, but something was pulling me 
in that direction. I decided to follow my intuition, knowing I was in no hurry. Hell, if I could last 
months, an extra hour or two wasn’t going to kill me even if my balls disagreed. 
While I allowed the night to decide my fate, I was drawn to a pub much quieter than the 
previous three I’d passed. And though I knew its owner, I hadn’t planned on a slow pint or two. I 
needed something with a little extra stimulation.
“Ryker, I’d heard you’d returned again!” came the ever-upbeat voice of the seasoned 
landlady. She hugged me in greeting, and I quickly returned the gesture as always. Though 
technically I was much older than she was, she always treated me as though I was her son. How 
could I leave now?
Nero yipped to announce his presence, and Mary quickly bent to give him the fusses he 
craved. Yep, the dog was a sucker for attention when he wasn’t on duty. He was intelligent 
enough to know the difference between leave and work. And when we were home, he always 
rivalled me with his need for care. Hell yeah! I liked to be tended to for a little release.
An all-too-familiar waft of vanilla came my way, and my body reacted instantly, attributing it 
to something much more than it was; a scent. 
I followed Mary into the bar, scanning the dimly lit rooms for the source of the smell. Nero 
kept Mary busy as she pulled my pint of bitter, allowing me the chance to fix my gaze upon hers 
again.
She’d caught me by surprise, and I wondered if somehow she’d returned to her case, working 
surveillance on me once more, but when the voice of a man interrupted my thoughts I’d realised 
I’d been wrong. 
I turned my gaze, staring at the guy that was worth her time at night. I snorted to myself as 
the sounds of their conversation graced my ears. 
Yeah, he wanted to get in her pants all right.
The animal in me awoke, wanting to rip the bastards head off of his shoulders for even 
insinuating that he was good enough for her. I tried calming myself with gulps of beer, but every 
intake of his stench was enough to push me over the edge.
I couldn’t explain it, but he did not deserve to be sat opposite my princess as a dinner date.
Shut the fucking door. My princess? Where the fuck did that come from? I rummaged 
through my mind, wondering at what point I’d become fucking hysterical. Laying claim to 
someone wasn’t something I ever did. That wasn’t me. 
Easy, remember?
I downed the last of my pint and hurried to leave, expressing my goodbye to Mary en-route. 
Nero followed like I knew he would, and together we rushed somewhere more lively.
That agent had hooked her claws in me more than I wanted to admit, and I knew the best way 
to get her out of my system was by fucking someone else.
Since when did I become a puppy dog with lovesick eyes? I spoke to her once, and now my 
dick wanted to have a party in her pants indefinitely?
I didn’t think so.
I followed the scent of sex and booze, and allowed my cock to do the talking. Tonight was 
about release. Not finding a potential mate.
Shit.
Chapter Four
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
Despite my nagging efforts, the Director had made it clear. I was still on assignment. Apparently 
he was still important to our team. I had no idea why, but Fox had been clear on her orders. He 
wasn’t allowed to get away this time.
And I was the unfortunate sucker that had to negotiate with the arsehole known as Lt.Colonel 
Ryker West. Lucky me.
While I sat amongst the crowd, remaining as inconspicuous as I could in my light grey pant 
suit, I surveyed the area for a general consensus. I detected anticipation and excitement in the air 
while the audience waited for the demonstration to begin. I had to agree, I was looking forward 
to it, too.
The Armed Forces fair was one of the biggest attractions of the year, and while I knew their 
aim was to gather more troops, it served its purpose in reminding the public what outstanding 
service they provided. To protect thy country, as the mantra went. 
Maybe I was biased considering my job, but I believed in the system. Justice was the hammer 
knocking on everyone’s door.
“Ladies and gentleman, in a few short moments our elite team of Military Working Dogs and 
their handlers will be ready to demonstrate what they’re capable of. I ask that you remain silent, 
and leave all applause until the end. Thank you.”
The crowd silenced immediately. The makeshift area had been cordoned off by metal 
barriers, a protection no doubt in case the canines escaped. The audience had no idea of the 
restraint and command the handlers actually held over their dogs. Humans weren’t aware of the 
paranormal among them. Everything was always for show.
“Welcome, everybody, how are you doing today?” Ryker cheered as he entered the court 
with Nero beside him. Three other handlers followed him, all with dogs in tow. An 
overwhelming scent of animal triggered my nose as understanding dawned on me. This was 
Ryker’s team, and all the men were shifters, too. No wonder his record was unbeatable. How had 
I missed that information in my initial background search?
“Today we’re showing a brief insight to what we do with our dogs overseas, and how they 
help keep us safe. You’ll see their strength, their commitment and their high level of obedience. 
Please remember these are highly-trained working dogs, not your average pet.”
As the demonstration went on I was finding myself peculiarly engaged in everything Ryker 
did. The way he commanded the crowd, captivating every set of eyes. The way his body moved, 
like a beckoning call drawing me in. God, I wanted to be the one captured within his arms, 
pinned down by his body.
I squirmed in my seat. Where the fuck did that thought come from?
I glanced at my watch, suddenly wanting this whole assignment to be finished. My results 
usually came in fast, I wasn’t one to beat around the bush, but Ryker was something else 
entirely. 
Was I stalling on purpose? Finding ways to keep the case open as long as possible? Or had 
my confidence finally taken a hit, knocking me off my pedestal? Dammit! He’d gotten under my 
skin.
I stood to leave, knowing I couldn’t wait around anymore. I was done being patient. 
“Miss, how good of you to volunteer. Please, this way.”
I paused as all eyes turned my way. What had I gotten myself into? I’d been so consumed by 
my thoughts of Ryker, I’d lost track of the demonstration as I tried to leave.
I turned towards the voice, and noticed the wide grin plastered on Ryker’s face. It was clear 
he’d chosen me on purpose, perhaps I hadn’t been as incognito as I’d thought. Fuck, I was losing 
my touch around him.
I inwardly growled though my wolf felt somewhat pleased with herself. Was this her doing? I 
felt her brush up against the corners of my mind, and I imagined the smirk I knew she was 
feeling. Bugger.
“Please, don’t be shy. I won’t hurt you,” he teased, holding his hand out to motion towards 
me.
I sneered. ‘Like he could hurt me anyway.’ I waited to be let into the arena, already feeling 
the weighted stares sending daggers into my back. 
“Are you armed, princess?” He asked away from the microphone. 
I smirked, letting the hideous nickname wash over my shoulders. “As an agent on duty? You 
bet I am,” I retorted.
“Good, that gives me the excuse to pat you down.” He winked.
“Touch me, and I’ll knock you on your back,” I warned.
“Ooh, feisty.” His eyes glowed as he held up the microphone once again, “Please, take a 
quick break while we set up. We’ll be back shortly.” 
As the crowd dispersed, Ryker nudged me towards the rear end of the court. “Lower that 
hand anymore, and you’ll lose the head you’re thinking with,” I growled sweetly.
“I can’t help but notice you seem to be a little agitated with me.” He daringly lowered his 
palm, testing my limits.
I grabbed his hand, twisting it into a lock as I held his gaze. “I am this close to putting you on 
the floor,” I pinched my thumb and index finger together, leaving the slightest of gaps to portray 
my sentiment.
“Princess, as long as you’re on top that’s fine with me,” he smiled naughtily. 
I let him go, groaning with frustration. “Can we just get this over with?” Damn the Director 
and her stupid demands. If it wasn’t for my job being on the line I’d have left ages ago.
“Now that’s a line every guy wants to hear.”
“Sounds like one hell of a volunteer you chose there, Storm.”
I looked at the guy walking my way, detecting he was lycan, too. “Storm?” I asked, trying 
my best to hide my smirk.
“Combat codename,” Ryker answered. “I bet you have one, too.”
“I do, but Storm? Are you wet and windy all the time?” I laughed at my own joke.
“No, princess. I’m wild and dangerous.” His nostrils flared, allowing part of his beast to 
show. I smiled in response. He wasn’t frightening me, if anything, it was turning me on.
“Are you in the forces, too?” The stranger asked, no doubt picking up on Ryker’s comment 
about my codename.
I shook my head. “No, I’m an agent with the Paranormal Division of the Secret Intelligence 
Service.”
“Wow, that’s a mouthful,” he joked. “I’m Hemley by the way, the guys call me Hunter.”
“Kira,” I offered, shaking his hand. “Or Midnight, whichever you prefer. So, what am I 
supposed to do?” Now that Ryker had pulled me in, I’d found the bait I needed to get him where 
I wanted. 
“Weapons first,” Ryker demanded, crossing his arms over his imposing chest.
Between the two of them they were quite the muscular pair, and even though Hunter was 
strikingly handsome with his blonde hair and chiselled face, my eyes had a hard time leaving 
Ryker. 
I sighed, and reached for the gun holstered at my back. “There.”
“And the rest.”
“I don’t know what you’re talking about,” I feigned ignorance. 
“How about the gun on your left ankle, and the blades attached to your arms? You can’t fool 
me, princess. Now hand them over.” He waited with his giant hand suspended in the air.
“On one condition,” I smirked, knowing this was my chance to get even. “When we’re done 
here, you come with me to Headquarters.”
He seemed to be mulling it over if the silence was any indication, and while I was ready to 
back up my statement, he’d surprised me. “That seems like a fair trade. You have a deal.”
~
Ryker
CODENAME Storm
The shock on her face was the reason I’d agreed so easily. I knew she was ready for a fight, I 
could smell it practically jumping off of her body. But what she didn’t know was that I was 
willing to go wherever she went just so that I could be around her some more, no matter what the 
price was. 
She was more than intriguing, and there was something utterly scrumptious about her smart 
mouth and attitude, not to mention the body she was hiding beneath that tailored suit. It clung to 
her curves deliciously, highlighting the goods she most definitely had to offer. And as for those 
fuck-me heels for work? Fuck yeah, I could get used to that.
Her intoxicating vanilla scent had been following me for days. Wherever I went, her scent 
was there though I’d never actually sensed her nearby. My mind had been tormenting me with 
hints of her since the moment she’d walked into my life. I couldn’t get rid of her even when I 
tried finding someone else. There was no one else. I wanted her. So damned if I was going to let 
her get away again.
“Great, the Director will be pleased.” Kira handed me her weapons, gracing me with a sneak 
at her delicate skin.
“I only care about pleasing you,” I teased, testing to see her reaction. 
“Perv,” she joked, flicking her blue-tinted, black hair over her shoulder. “Okay, so what have 
I signed myself up for?”
“Basically it’s a search and capture. We want the audience to see how MWDs use their noses 
in tracking down fugitives. So we’ll do a quick scene to show you running through the field, and 
then you’ll hide in a bunker we’ve created. I’ll bring Nero out, let him loose, and once he’s 
found you, game over. Got it?”
She rolled her eyes. “Are you underestimating my intelligence level?”
I smirked. “Nope, but you might want to change out of those heels. Wouldn’t want you to 
twist your ankle.”
“I’ll be fine,” she scoffed. 
I held up my hands. “I’m just saying you can’t try suing me once this done. I gave you 
warning, princess.”
“Shut up. I’ve got this. Now can we get on with it? I have a busy schedule today.”
“Quite the bossy lady, aren’t you?” I jeered, and turned to check on the audience. Ruffling 
her feathers was becoming one of my favourite things to do. Shit she gave good comebacks. 
How could I not enjoy being around her?
“Ladies and gentlemen, if you would take your seats once more we’re ready to begin our 
next demonstration. Thank you.”
Putting on displays with Nero during my days on leave was one of those occasions I 
absolutely relished. Protecting my country was one thing, demonstrating to the public exactly 
what we were capable of was something else. And Nero loved it. With the heart of a lion he 
deserved to be applauded, to be recognised for all his hard work and efforts.
While I waited in the wings, watching Kira’s tempting arse run around the area leaving her 
scent, I was amazed by the speed and strength of her legs as she proved me wrong. She most 
definitely could run in heels, and boy was it sexy. 
“Nero!” I called as Kira bunkered down. He came bounding towards me, all four paws 
pounded on the grass. “Find the girl,” I ordered, giving way to let him work.
The crowd marvelled as he sought her out, following every direction she’d previously taken. 
I smiled with pride. Nero knew exactly what to do.
“Look at them, Storm. Doesn’t it solidify everything we do?”
I looked to Hunter, seeing his belief cemented on his face. “It does. It’s better than payday.”
“Well, I don’t know about that,” he joked, punching my arm in jest.
“Yeah, how could I forget you. . .” I stopped. 
“What’s . . .?”
I held up my hand, silencing him. “You smell that?” Every fibre of my being rose to high 
alert. The stench of evil, or more particularly, somebody wanting to do evil, cloaked the air. It 
was like garbage; rotten and smelly. 
I scanned the area, checking on Nero as he continued his demonstration - he hadn’t detected 
the scent yet.
“Storm, you get a visual?”
“That’s a negative.” I furiously searched, knowing there was danger nearby. This wasn’t 
hostile territory, but definitely served as an ideal location for an attack when there were many 
friendlies around; it carried the potential for many casualties. 
“Anything?” I asked, sounding desperate.
Gunshots fired in the arena. 
Chaos followed.
Chapter Five
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
Wailing screams pierced my ear drums as the demonstration turned to shit. The crowd fled from 
their seats, trembling as they ran from the sound of gunshots.
I called to Nero, forcing my will upon his to get him to stay with me. Though I knew it was 
against his training, I had a better plan for us that intended to get us out alive.
The bunker provided protection, shielding us from the gunman’s view. He entered the court, 
keeping his gun trained on Ryker. Where had Hunter gone?
Amongst the gunman’s dishevelled state, I caught a whiff of his scent along the breeze. 
Though it was tainted by the smell of rubbish, I recognised the animal within the human. This 
was no ordinary hostage situation.
“What do you want?” I heard Ryker ask as I left the bunker with Nero at my side. I kept our 
movements quiet, staying downwind to avoid being detected. 
“Shut up!” The gunman lashed out, smacking Ryker’s jaw with the butt of the gun. 
Something inside me snapped, clouding my vision with shades of red. I shook Nero loose of 
my command, and ordered him to attack. 
Nero ran straight ahead, distracting the gunman long enough for Ryker to disarm him. He 
took him down within seconds, training the weapon at the shabby man.
“Down on the ground, hands behind your back. Now!” Ryker shouted, and the man obliged.
“Nice to know you can handle yourself,” I smirked. “I thought I was going to have to 
perform some heroic shit for you,” I laughed, taking the cuffs from Ryker’s outstretched hand.
Nero sat on his haunches, panting as he watched over the assailant. “Good job, Nero.” I 
winked, and he replied with a single belly-rumbling bark.
“Sure, give the dog all the credit.” He rolled his eyes. “I could’ve been puppy chow by the 
time you’d have gotten your arse over here.”
I laughed as I lifted the scumbag off of the ground, holding onto his cuffed hands. Hunter 
came running towards us from the left hand side of the arena. “Report,” asked Ryker.
“All clear. Seems he was acting alone. Thunder and Drive are checking over the crowd, but it 
looks like douchebag here doesn’t know how to aim, thankfully.”
“Good. Clean this mess up, and double check to make sure there aren’t any devices left 
around, use the dogs if you can’t shift. Call me when it’s done.”
Hunter nodded and disappeared, keeping to his orders. The gunman twisted in my arms, 
trying to shake free when he thought I was distracted. Ryker turned to me, his lip pulled up in a 
curve. “Do you want some help there, princess?”
I snorted. “Yeah, right. If this fool wriggles anymore he’ll be the one to blame for broken 
arms, not me.” I threatened, tightening my grip around the cuffs, and lifting his arms up.
“Okay, okay, okay! I’ll stop!”
I smirked at the fool’s whines. That’s what he got for underestimating me. I headed towards 
the waiting black car, knowing my partner was inside.
“Midnight, what have we got?” Harvey asked, stepping out of the car to join Ryker and me.
“Panther,” I said, knowing what I’d scented earlier. Harvey’s eyes widened in shock, and I 
knew why. Panthers, as few as they were, were supposed to keep to themselves.
“Lock him up, find out what he knows, update me later. There’s something else we have to 
do first.” I pointed between Ryker and I.
Harvey nodded, taking the prisoner, and leaving us behind.
“We aren’t following?” Ryker asked with a tilt to his head and a crease in his brow.
“Not yet. The team can deal with the questioning.”
Ryker kept at my side as I headed towards my car. “Then what the hell are we doing then? 
Because, princess, when a guy points a gun to my head I like to find out why, especially when 
said person is a supernatural, like us.” 
I shrugged. “All in good time. First, we have a deal that needs fulfilling.” I unlocked the car 
and got in, knowing Ryker would follow, too. 
“You’re kidding me? Now? After that? You’re still taking me to Headquarters?” He sounded 
incredulous, like what I’d suggested was ridiculous.
I turned to him. “You made a deal with me. I’m not letting a gun-crazy panther get in the 
way of you sticking to that deal. I want this case over with, so yeah, we’re going now. Problem?”
He paused, watching me for a moment. “You’re sexy when you’re bossy. I like it.” He 
smiled, baring his pearly whites. “And for the record, I’d never stand you up.”
My breath hitched in my throat, causing my thoughts to shift focus. God, he was like a 
waiting orgasm, one more compliment and despite my best efforts I was sure I’d be bursting out 
in waves of ecstasy. Why did he affect me so much? I’d never been the type to be wooed by 
words before. Damn him and his hotness.
“Good,” I said lamely, finding my voice at the back of my throat. “Otherwise, I’ll be hunting 
you down and cuffing you to me until the job is done. You won’t be the case that ruins my 
perfect reputation.” I turned the key in the ignition, hearing the engine roar to life.
“Princess, if I’d have known that was on the cards, I wouldn’t have given in so easily.”
~
Ryker
CODENAME: Storm
Watching Kira’s perfectly toned arse sway with the movement of her hips was sure to become 
my undoing. The grey fabric to her trousers clung to her, moulding her butt like the finest piece 
of art in the world. 
I tried shifting my own combat trousers as I walked behind her, loosening the death grip my 
boxers held over my growing cock. Fuck, she made me big.
Though I had no intention of sticking around her building for long, I was conflicted with the 
idea of leaving her behind. There was something strong and protective about the way my wolf 
had latched onto her, that it almost pained me to think of leaving.
“So this is Headquarters, then?” I asked, unimpressed by the modern building. Everything 
about it seemed over the top, exactly like the Director herself. What good was it to have a secret 
government building entirely encased in glass for outsiders to peer in? I hadn’t realised covert 
operations now meant ‘for-all-to-see’.
“Yes,” Kira answered in a tone that suggested I was stupid for relaying the obvious. 
Apparently she wasn’t up for small talk. 
I passed floor upon floor of computers and drones, wondering just how boring those people 
were to stare at a screen all day and call it work. No, thank you. You could pass me action every 
day of the week, this was no Colonel looking for a desk job.
Kira rushed ahead through what I assumed was the main command centre based on the large 
screens covering the entire back wall. I kept my stride at an even pace, enjoying my view of Kira 
once more before she opened a glass door, and pointed to the woman inside.
“Fox,” I acknowledged, trying my best to keep the stoic expression on my face. Fuck, one 
glance at her ugly mug, and it was enough for my dick to shrivel up into my balls. “How can I 
help you?” I folded my arms behind my back, watching Kira out of the corner of my eye.
The Director plastered on a fake smile, and her heavily made-up face moved with animation. 
“Lieutenant Colonel, I think you’re mistaken. It’s what I can do for you.”
I huffed. “Right, and what’s that?” I asked, disbelieving. She’d been pestering me for years, 
every time I returned from tour duty I found a voicemail waiting. Not this time. No, she’d taken 
it a step further, and added a tail. Granted it was a sexy, mouth-watering tail.
“A job,” she answered honestly.
I laughed loudly, but not before hearing the sudden intake of breath from Kira. So, she hadn’t 
known what the Director wanted? Interesting.
“Why would I need a job when I already love mine?” I squared my jaw, keeping my temper 
from rising.
“Oh, come now, Storm. You and I both know why. There’s no need to be coy.” Fox trailed 
her hand through her hair, twirling it around her finger. Was she trying to entice me? Kira 
stiffened beside me, and I sensed a sudden spike in her heartbeat. I secretly smiled, knowing she 
was attracted to me even if she didn’t want to acknowledge it yet.
“I’ve lasted this long, I think I have a few more years left in me yet,” I answered, not giving 
her what she wanted.
“You’re wrong. There’ve been whispers amongst the ranks, your brethren will soon come to 
understand how their Lieutenant Colonel hasn’t aged a day in the many years he’s been working. 
How is it a twenty-five year-old man maintains the rank of Lieutenant Colonel for as long as the 
humans can remember him? Talk travels fast, Storm. It’s time to move on.”
I bristled under her words. It hurt more than anything to know that what she said was true. I’d 
been looking like I was twenty-five for a hundred years. That was the age all werewolves 
reached maturity, and even though the years went by, our faces and bodies never looked a day 
older. I swapped forces, jumped ranks every time suspicions began to rise, but this time was 
different. I had my own team of werewolves, and Nero wasn’t ever leaving my side. 
“And what about my team? Are you offering them jobs, too?” I was testing the boundaries, 
knowing she couldn’t do a damn thing to punish me. I wasn’t one of her lackeys.
“They still have more years of service left in them yet. It’s you that’s in danger of outing our 
secret.” Fox crossed her arms, a smug smile stretched her red-stained lips.
Did she really think I was going to be that easy? Now if it was Kira on the other hand . . .
“Then I’m sorry to disappoint you. Actually, I’m not. I’m not leaving my team, so you can 
take your job and shove it up your pompous arse.”
I turned to leave, catching the look of shock across Kira’s face. I quickly winked, striding out 
the door like a self-righteous man. 
Director Nina Fox wasn’t getting her grabby hands on me.
Chapter Six
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
I stood with my mouth agape, slightly flabbergasted, and incredibly turned on by the way Ryker 
handled himself. Now he was a man that knew what he wanted. His self-assuredness and control 
had me desperate for his prowess in the bedroom, writhing beneath his sweat and muscle.
“Agent Knight!” I jumped as my thoughts were rudely interrupted by the Director’s squeal.
“Ma’am?”
“Your assignment isn’t over. I suggest you catch up with him.”
I opened my mouth to protest, but she shut me down, no doubt taking her anger out on me.
“Unless he’s signed the contract and joined the team, you’re still on case. Whatever it takes, 
Midnight. He cannot put the rest of us in danger over pride for his job. We must not exist. Got 
it?” She hunched over her desk, glaring into my eyes.
Despite my reluctance, I nodded. “Yes, ma’am. Anything else?”
“Don’t let me down. I chose the best for a reason.” I bowed out of the office, letting the 
weight of the sentiment settle around my shoulders. Why did it feel like my job was on the line if 
I didn’t hand over the goods? Though I thrived under pressure, I was beginning to realise that not 
all pressure was worthy.
I took out my phone, dialling my partner’s number. “Harvey, what you got for me?” I asked, 
buckling up in the Range Rover.
“Not much. The panther claims he was on a suicide mission.”
I frowned. “No way, not buying that. If he’d wanted to die he’d have used a bomb. He 
pointed that gun at Storm for a reason, find it,” I said, using Ryker’s codename. 
“I’m on it, are you on your way here?” he asked, his baritone voice filling the car via the 
speakers.
I shook my head. “No. According to Fox I’m not done yet. I’ll check in soon.” I hung up as I 
joined the motorway, rattling my brain for a new plan. Who knew what sort of mood Ryker 
would be in by the time I found him.
It was time to pull out the big guns.
~
Ryker
CODENAME: Storm
“Hey, Mary, can we get another round in, please?” I called to the landlady, lifting my empty beer 
glass. She nodded in return whilst Nero followed her every move. Man, he just loved that old 
lady’s attention.
“So, what the hell happened with you and that Midnight chick? I like her by the way, she’s 
got some fight in her,” said Hunter.
I groaned. Where did I fucking begin? “You guys remember that Director that keeps 
harassing me?”
“That’s her?” Hunter asked, eyebrows raised.
“I wish,” I mumbled, and three sets of eyes stared my way.
“Care to explain, Storm?” Drive asked, finishing the last of his beer as Mary came around 
with more.
I smirked, wondering just how much to give the curious bastards. “She’s one of the agents 
sent to acquire me.” I let the word roll off my tongue in disgust. Beautiful Kira could acquire me 
for herself as much as she wanted, but for the Director that wanted to take my job away? Well, 
she could go fuck herself.
“Ouch! That’s gotta sting,” Hunter expressed, leaving a moment of silence to settle around 
the table. 
The pub was reasonably quiet with a few locals spread across the bar, entertaining Mary and 
Nero. And though I’d been pumped up enough to work out, the guys had insisted on beer time. 
Who was I to deny a man some quality time with the golden nectar?
“Why do they want you?” Thunder asked, his brisk tone evident he wasn’t pleased, but then 
again, he was nicknamed Thunder for a reason. His temper and rage always got the better of him. 
It was great when hostiles surrounded us, but at home, not so much.
I scoffed. “My age, apparently, is becoming an issue. They seem to think it’s time for a 
change. Again,” I added. I’d accepted my fate a long time ago, knowing I couldn’t always stay 
where I was when humans surrounded me, but the more times I had to change forces and rank, 
the bigger the chip on my shoulder became. I was carving myself piece by piece as I left what I 
loved behind to start all over again. It fucking sucked.
How could I serve and protect efficiently when whenever I finally settled my team in, it was 
time to change address, change country, change career, change myself?
I hung my head down low, lips inches from drowning my sorrows in beer. When did I get so 
fucking sorry for myself?
“Have you noticed any whispers in the field about your age?” Drive asked, leaning back in 
his chair and casually crossing his arms over his chest.
I shook my head as I swallowed another mouthful of beer. “Nothing, which is why I think the 
Director is reaching. Who knows,” I shrugged. 
“Yeah, but I bet Midnight sweetens the deal though, huh?” Hunter goaded.
I smiled devilishly. “You have no idea. There’s something about her. . .”
“Yeah, I bet there is. Sounds like we’ve got a lovesick Colonel here, fellas.”
I shoved Hunter’s arm, even though I couldn’t deny the sudden happiness that enveloped me 
whenever I thought of her. 
“By that smile I’d say she’ll have you domesticated in no time. What happened to our fierce 
leader? Oh, that’s right. He grew a vagina.”
The table erupted with laughter at Hunter’s final statement. Thunder didn’t seem entirely 
convinced by the banter if his scrunched forehead was anything to go by.
“Did she tell you about the shooter yet?” Thunder asked, referring to the gunman earlier 
today.
I sobered quickly, feeling a hefty seriousness settle around me. “No. You never found 
anything else?” I asked, wondering myself what the gunman’s endgame had been.
“Nothing. The area was clean, which makes me wonder how the son of a bitch got in in the 
first place. There’s no way the guards would’ve let that piece through.”
“Something doesn’t add up, that’s for sure,” I said, staring into the distance. “Still, we’re on 
holidays now so let’s leave it up to the professionals,” I mocked.
~
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
I didn’t know what possessed me to stand on the porch with pizza in one hand and beer in the 
other, but I figured if I was ever going to close this goddamn case then it was time I played dirty. 
And wasn’t beer and pizza the guys equivalent to a woman’s chocolate?
I stood waiting for a response longer than my pride wanted, but the thought of turning around 
and walking away like I’d been stood up was the reason I persisted in knocking on the door. His 
car was here so he had to be home. Right?
The smell of melted cheese, spicy pepperoni and barbeque sauce wrapped itself around me, 
enticing me with the urge to eat. I tried ignoring my hunger, but the more I stood waiting, the 
worse my patience became. 
Well, if he wasn’t home, then I figured I would wait inside. I settled the beer and pizza on the 
floor, took out my trusted lock pick from my pocket, and quickly unlocked the front door.
I let myself inside, noticing how completely quiet it was. He really wasn’t here, and neither 
was his sidekick.
I ventured towards the kitchen, knowing my way around after scanning the place the day 
before he returned from duty, back when this awful case began.
I sat at his modest kitchen table, popped the lid on a beer bottle, and took to eating the 
delicious, doughy goodness one slice at a time. I switched the wall-mounted television on, and 
took to scrolling through the channels until something stood out from all the mundane 
programmes.
The sudden noise of movement had my ears perking up within seconds. I remained calm, 
knowing he was finally home, and took a swig of my third beer, resting my feet on the empty 
chair opposite.
Nero came rushing in ahead of Ryker, and I remained seated, bringing my wolf to the 
forefront of my mind and allowing her to flash her eyes. Nero instantly changed, coming to my 
side for a fuss as I knew he would once he realised I was no threat.
“Come in to my house, princess. Make yourself comfortable,” Ryker mocked, leaning against 
the doorframe with his hands tucked into his jeans.
“Well I came with beer and pizza, but you took too long getting here, so I ate it.” I smirked, 
finishing the last of bottle three. “If you ask nicely, I might order another one.” 
Ryker huffed, moving into the room, and rested his arms against the back of a chair, bending 
towards me. I breathed in a sigh, captivated by the strength of his highly impressive muscles. 
Christ they bulged with sexiness as he gripped the seat, and then I was lost to my imagination of 
him gripping me that way.
“Why are you here, Kira?” he sighed wearily.
“Because I’m not done persuading you to join the agency,” I answered honestly. I wasn’t the 
type to outright bullshit, but I was also taken aback by the easiness it took in telling him the 
truth. 
“Fox didn’t get the message then?” he smiled a charmingly buoyant grin, reminding me 
again of the unusual attraction I felt towards him.
“She wasn’t even fazed. So why don’t we stop with the games and just get down to 
business.” I stood, putting my hand into my back pocket to grab the wedge of paper, and tossed it 
at him.
“What’s this?”
“Your contract,” I answered, opening another beer.
“That’s it? You just expect me to sign on the dotted line, no questions asked? I thought I 
made myself clear earlier. I don’t want to join the agency. I’m a soldier in the real army, not 
some pretend paranormal investigative service.”
My temper bubbled at his insinuation. My job was real, too. I immediately stood, storming to 
stand in front him. “For some stupid reason the Director is set on getting you into the team, I 
don’t care enough to ask why. But you know what? It’s become my job to make sure you sign 
that fucking contract because until then, I’m following your every move, never leaving your side 
because you’re the case I’ve been assigned. And I always close my cases.” I prodded his chest 
with my index finger several times, hoping to drill the importance of the assignment into his 
thick skull. 
Heat rose between us, cloaking the air with sexual tension. Even when I was raging at him 
my body wanted to hump his leg like a bitch in heat.
He grabbed my arms with his big paws, squeezing me with gentle pressure that sent tingles 
all the way down to my precious vagina.
“Some cases aren’t meant to be closed,” he said, and pressed his lips against mine. He pulled 
me in tight to his body, wrapping his arms around me. I gasped, giving him entry to my mouth.
I lost myself inside his kiss, roaming my hands in his short hair, feeling his hardened body 
pressed up against me. A small moan escaped me as he nibbled on my lip, drawing out my 
hunger. I wanted him badly.
As our tongues entwined, my body ached for more of his touch. I needed to feel more of him.
The sound of my ringtone cut through the lust, and I was suddenly aware of my actions. I 
pulled away quickly, reaching for my phone and checked the screen. I cleared my throat.
“Midnight,” I responded.
“You’ve caught another case. Files will be sent tonight, get on it first thing tomorrow,” the 
usual stony voice of the Director said.
“What about my current task?” I asked, staring into Ryker’s eyes, willing him to keep quiet.
“Take him with you. Treat it as a day in the life. Get him all warmed up into joining us.” 
I went to reply when the line cut off. Fuck, I hated when she did that. I pocketed my phone 
and squared my shoulders, remembering I was here for business. Nothing else.
“You better get a good night’s sleep, sunshine. We’ve got work to do in the morning,” I 
smirked,   hoping   that   was   enough   to   deter   his   thoughts.   I   was   wrong   for   breaking 
professionalism.
“Nope, I’m on leave. Sounds like you have work to do,” he antagonised. God he was 
infuriating!
I picked up my keys, and trotted to the door all nonchalant. “Apparently not. I’ll be back in 
the morning, make sure you’re ready.” I closed the door behind me, secretly grateful for the 
interruption because God knows I was ready to rip his clothes and devour him.
Once I started, I knew I wouldn’t be able to stop. And that was an addiction I wasn’t ready 
for in my life.
Chapter Seven
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
The silence in the car reflected my current mood. I’d barely slept a wink, too busy tossing and 
turning with the day’s events on my mind, and seeing him again. Lord almighty I was becoming 
a teen with an all-consuming crush, and that was enough to make me gag.
Why the hell did he have to come into my life and rattle my very solid foundations?
“So, are we going to talk about what happened yesterday or are you going to continue 
ignoring me all day?”
I grunted, doing my best to keep my emotions in check when my body was compelled to pull 
the car over and assault Ryker’s face with my lips, especially when he smelled so bloody 
delicious this morning.
“It was a mistake,” I forced out of my mouth. Even hearing the words out loud turned my 
stomach against me.
“Sure didn’t feel like a mistake when you were moaning into my mouth.” 
I turned to Ryker, fixing my glare on his rugged face. I hated how easy it was for me to lose 
control around him, to lose all my inhibitions inside the pools of his blue eyes. I tightened my 
lips together. “It won’t be happening again,” I promised, keeping my grip firm on the steering 
wheel.
“Princess, that was the best mistake I’ve ever made. So you can trust me when I say I intend 
to do it again. I’ll make sure I’ll never learn my lesson.”
My breath caught in my lungs at the determination so clear in his voice. My body tingled 
with anticipation, betraying my mind with excitement at the possibility of his hands on me once 
more.
I remained quiet, keeping my attention on the road ahead. Ryker was a dangerous distraction.
“What happened to all your snappy comebacks?” Ryker grinned.
I groaned, already feeling a strain on the day. “Look, we have a job to do so I suggest you 
shut up and pay attention.”
“And why am I being dragged into this again?”
I huffed, ready for the same argument we’d had this morning on his porch. How was it his 
cockiness was both exasperating and charming?
“Can’t you just trust me that this is something you’ll want to be a part of?”
“I’ll stop complaining if you give me another one of your kisses,” he winked, turning in his 
seat towards me.
“Oh, would you look at that. We’re here now.” I quickly parked the car, and jumped out, 
unwilling to give Ryker a moment to negate.
Ryker breathed in and out noisily. “I can smell the lively dead bodies from here,” he joked, 
following me into the morgue.
An overpowering scent of chemicals assaulted my nose as I burst through the door, 
acknowledging the stout receptionist with a nod. I followed the tiled hallway, knowing the doc 
was waiting for me.
“Next time, princess, I get to choose the location of our date,” Ryker whispered beside me. 
Heat radiated from his body, comforting me like a snuggly blanket.
“Sure, because dead bodies really get me going.” I plastered a fake smile on my face, and 
entered the doc’s autopsy room.
“Morning, Midnight,” said the doc, using his lame greeting as always. Oh, he thought he was 
a right joker.
“Mike, this is Storm. He’ll be assisting me on this case,” I announced, introducing the two to 
each other.
“Nice to meet you. I hope you’re not squeamish, but if you feel the urge, duck your head in 
that sink over there.”
I folded my arms over my chest, secretly smiling at Mike’s usual introduction. Somehow I 
couldn’t imagine Ryker fainting over a corpse.
“Did you find cause of death?” I asked, wanting to jump right in. After reading all the 
preliminary reports last night I was ready to solve this mystery.
“I did.” Mike removed the cover hiding the body, and dived right in to his findings. “Despite 
all the cuts and trauma to the body, death was due to asphyxiation. You’ll notice the petechiae on 
the eyes,” he lifted the lids, showing the small red spots on the whites of the victim’s eyes. “And 
here you’ll see bruising consistent with a strangulation. Judging by the thickness and pattern of 
the bruise, I’d suggest the weapon was a belt or something similar.”
 Though I’d expected Ryker to speak up, he remained quiet. However, his frown was loud 
enough.
“Thanks, doc. Anything else? What about the cuts?”
He shook his head. “Well, he obviously endured some kind of torture. They all occurred 
ante-mortem. I also found some trace, and sent it upstairs. The lab should have your results 
soon.”
“Excellent. Thank you, Mike. If you find anything else, let me know.”
I left the building, letting Ryker’s silence follow me into the car. I buckled up, started the 
engine, and waited until he was ready to talk.
“You didn’t think about telling me who the victim was beforehand?” he finally asked, 
scrunching his fists in his lap.
I shrugged. “I told you you’d be interested in this case, and that was enough. You’re a big 
boy, Storm. I thought you could handle it.”
“I can handle myself, princess. But didn’t you think I’d want to know that the panther that 
attacked me yesterday, is now dead?”
“Well, now you know,” I replied.
“Wasn’t your team supposed to be questioning him? How the hell did he escape?” Anger 
cloaked the car with bitterness as Ryker’s temper rose.
“He didn’t escape. He was let go,” I said with disdain, remembering the surprise I’d had 
when I’d read the file last night.
“What? Why?” 
I stared absently out of the window, waiting on the traffic lights to turn green. “I don’t know. 
There’s some bullshit excuse about no charges, but I don’t buy it. We had sufficient reasoning, 
and plenty of witnesses to hold him on a whole load of legal jargon, but someone played with the 
system, and I intend to find out why.”
I leaned into the back of the car, reaching for the file I’d printed off. “Here, this is all I know. 
Where the body was found, statements, initial findings. . . Knock yourself out.” I offered, and 
continued the drive to our next location. 
Now that I knew I’d grabbed his attention I was certain I would wrap both cases soon. I was 
back on form once again.
~
Ryker
CODENAME: Storm
Though I was known for my ruthless behaviour, I despised how furious I truly was. How did the 
woman I’d become to admire fuck up so badly? 
Logic told me I was being ridiculous, and my heart prayed she really hadn’t been a part of it. 
But what if she was? What if this was all a ruse to get me on board?
Trust was one of the biggest hurdles when it came to my job, I didn’t trust openly until 
someone had proved themselves. But, Midnight? 
Why did everything good always find a way to become complicated?
Fuck! My blood raged inside me, bubbling with fierce intensity. Was I mad at Midnight 
because the panther had been let go? Or was I mad because the panther was dead before I’d had 
a chance to question him myself?
Why did my mind keep attaching her into the equation when she hadn’t even been there in 
the first place? She’d been with me, right? That was when she got the call. Right?
Was I blowing everything out of proportion because I didn’t have control over the situation? 
Because it wasn’t my team in charge? 
I kept my mouth shut for the remainder of the journey, unwilling to reveal any fears I had 
over Midnight while I buried my head in the file. I wanted to believe her. More than anything I 
wanted her to be innocent of the truly awful situations I had running through my mind. She 
couldn’t be a part of it. I knew I couldn’t condone it if she had.
“This is it,” she said, stopping outside an unsuspecting bungalow. She pulled out her gun, 
checking the chamber before leaving.
“Weapons? Are we expecting a dead panther to be walking around his house?”
She rolled her eyes. “No. We’re making sure there aren’t any assailants in there. You got my 
back?” she asked seriously, her eyes pinning me to my chair.
I smirked. “You got a gun that isn’t going to send me to jail if I use it?”
She reached between my legs. 
“I don’t think that weapon will help us much in there, princess.”
She slapped my leg, and opened the glove box, taking out her back up. “It probably wouldn’t 
be big enough for the job anyway,” she retorted, leaving the car before I could reply.
I laughed to myself, impressed by her smart mouth once more. 
Following Midnight to the house, I clicked the safety off of the Sig she’d given me, and 
quickly scoped the surrounding area.
A neatly manicured lawn sat at the front, surrounded by colourfully blooming plants. 
Bringing my wolf forward, I scented the area, filtering the smells into their categories, and 
detected no hint that someone else waited inside: it was all very quiet.
Midnight lowered to the door handle, making quick work of the lock. I snorted, unsurprised 
by that particular set of skills. She’d entered my home much the same way already. Twice.
Quietly, she opened the door, and I entered, noticing the empty hallway. Using my tactical 
hand signals, we separated into opposite directions. I checked each room on my side, leading 
with the gun firmly in hands.
“Clear,” I called, finishing my initial perimeter search. 
“Clear,” she replied, and I holstered the gun behind my back. 
“Well, it’s safe to say this guy was a serious neat freak. Everything is lined up perfectly on 
his desk, there isn’t an ounce of clutter here,” I said, amazed by my own amazement. I was tidy 
and clean myself after several years of being an army man. But this? This was OCD at a whole 
new level.
“You get anything?” I called, opening a perfectly organised wardrobe of colour co-ordinated 
outfits. Who the hell was this guy?
“Nothing.” I followed the sound of Midnight’s voice and found her in the kitchen. “There’s 
no sign of forced entry, there’s no sign of a fight. And everything seems to be tucked away in its 
perfect little place. Doesn’t that seem odd to you?”
I nodded, watching the crease in her brow. “Maybe the panther knew his attacker. Let him in, 
and then bam! Game over,” I speculated.
“Possible, but I think this isn’t our primary scene. Whatever happened to the panther didn’t 
happen here. Also, don’t you think it’s odd there’s no one here? Where’s the women?”
Instantly understanding, I answered. “Right, because a male panther wouldn’t leave his 
women behind unless there was a threat. And panthers are already a dying breed. Everything 
seems too clean, too tidy, like it’s all wrapped up in a bow and handed to us. Maybe this isn’t his 
real home. Did you get another address?”
Midnight paused, concentration lines marred her forehead. “No, there wasn’t anything else 
listed. Look, there’s something suspicious here, if I put a bet on anything I’d say he’s given us an 
alias. I say it’s time we dig deeper.”
“Wouldn’t his fingerprints have triggered the database into relaying his true identity?” I 
asked, wondering how an alias could be used effectively.
Her face turned pensive. “Right, of course it would, unless he found a way to hack into the 
system. Listen, this guy came blazing into an army demonstration with a gun. He must’ve known 
he wouldn’t get away with it, so what if it was all planned?”
“And if it was planned, then what was the goal? Because I don’t think strangulation was his 
target,” I offered.
“I’ll get forensics down here, see if they can get anything, but if it’s as clean as it looks then 
our only lead will shut us down.”
“I didn’t peg you for a defeatist,” I jeered, hoping to rile some reaction in her.
 “I’m just stating the facts,” she answered honestly. “But what happens next is why my 
reputation is so reputable,” she winked.
Chapter Eight
Kira
CODENAME: Midnight
Bunkering down inside Ryker’s house hadn’t been my idea. I wanted to be out there, searching 
for the next clue, but the stubborn bastard insisted on eating at home. And who was I to turn 
down free food?
Powering up my laptop, I listened to the sizzle of the steak frying in the pan, smelling the 
glorious juices wafting around the room. Logging in to the agency’s network, I began my search 
into the mysterious panther.
By the hundredth site I was ready to crack some skulls. Every page that held any potential 
into revealing who the panther was came up empty. Every loop hole, every random search 
revealed nothing. It was as if he’d never existed.
I slammed the laptop closed, and stood to stretch. The deep-seated ache in my bones pulled 
with delight, cracking slightly as I twisted and turned.
“What?” I asked, catching Ryker’s stare over the kitchen island.
“Just enjoying the view, princess.” He raised his brows suggestively, and despite my better 
judgement his words meant more to me than I could’ve imagined. He seemed so intent, so 
appreciative of what I had to offer. I quickly stowed those thoughts away, ignoring the want 
screaming inside my mind. Nothing would end well if I encouraged them.
“Are you going to help me work this case today, or are you going to keep pretending you’re 
the next top chef, tossing that pan like a smug git?” I crossed my arms, turning my back to look 
out of the window.
“When you want to work as hard as an army, you have to eat like one. Besides, my efforts 
will be turning up any minute.”
I turned. “What do you mean? What have you done apart from being an absolute pain in my 
arse since the moment we met?”
“You’ll see.” He smiled widely. “At least being a pain in your arse makes you think of me.”
I went to rebuff when a positively shiny, black mustang parked in Ryker’s driveway, and 
three strikingly handsome guys stepped out. I smirked, realising Ryker had called on his team to 
help him out. ‘Cheater,’ my wolf whispered at the back of my mind.
I recognised Hunter, his blonde hair and perfectly defined features was enough to rival an 
airbrushed model. They entered without knocking, a habit I imagined that was well-worn. Then 
again, if they were brothers in the army, I figured there were few secrets between them anyway.
“You need reinforcements, huh?” I joked, turning to lean against the kitchen side opposite 
Ryker.
“Not really, but tonight is guys night, and I didn’t want to cancel.” He shrugged.
Anger rose within me suddenly and engulfed me in flames so easily. “Then I’ll leave. Clearly 
this case isn’t important enough to you.” I tried to move, but Ryker gripped my arm, holding me 
in place.
“You’re wrong, princess. I want to know what happened to that panther more than you think, 
it’s why I didn’t change my plans. And though it may be guys night, I want you to stay.”
My flames of anger metamorphosed into burning desire, and aching heat consumed the room. 
I wanted Ryker more than I realised, it was fierce, intense, like if I didn’t have him touching me 
soon, I would combust, explode into a million unfixable pieces.
“Besides, you pretty much talk like a guy anyway. You’ll fit right in.”
My body immediately turned cold as if I’d been drenched in a bucket of rain water. There 
was nothing sexy about a guy telling you you were practically one of them. Unless he was gay. 
Oh, good lord almighty, please tell me Ryker wasn’t gay because that was one drool-worthy 
wasted opportunity otherwise. There was nothing more devastating than lusting over a gay man, 
because no matter what I could do, I’d never have the same twig and berries he was looking for.
“Excellent.” I grunted, and ignored the confusion etched in Ryker’s face. 
The men bounded into the room, relaxed and casual, completely unaware of the heated, and 
cooled tension in the air between Ryker and I. What just happened between us, anyway?
Hunter greeted me with a wave, settling down at the table with a cooled beer in his hand. 
“Kira, this is Drive and Thunder,” Ryker pointed out.
I took Drive’s hand, shaking it as I studied the man behind the name. He was tall like the 
others, he had black hair, and the tip of a tattoo peeked from the bared skin under his top. “Well, 
my name is Denton, but Drive is cool with me.” 
I smiled, and offered my hand to the other. “And you must be Thunder then.”
“Thompson, ma’am. Thunder just enriches my ego.” He bared his perfect teeth, shaking my 
hand with a firm grip. His skin was a deeply delicious mocha tone with a dusting of stubble 
trimmed into a goatee. 
“Nice to meet you both. I’m Kira, or Midnight. Whichever tickles your pickle is fine and 
dandy with me.” I chuckled to myself, suddenly realising the phrase wasn’t as innocent as I 
imagined.
“Sorry for crashing guys night too, someone didn’t tell me,” I emphasised, not wanting to be 
the pooper on the party.
“It’s good you’re here. We found something for the case,” Hunter began.
I turned to Ryker. “Oh, so you did cheat then,” I smirked. “What you got?” I asked, knowing 
my curiosity wouldn’t hold out for much longer, especially if it helped move the assignment 
along.
“Security footage of the demo the other day. Some interesting stuff on here.” Drive tossed a 
USB flash drive at me. I caught it, and sat at the table beside Hunter, plugging the stick into my 
laptop.
Powering up the doc, I concentrated on the feeds, watching with intent for anything 
suspicious. Ryker moved from the oven, coming to stand behind my chair, and leaned over me. I 
was momentarily distracted by the closeness of his body, his breath, his scent. I wanted to lean 
into his arm, and slot myself into the gap where he could cradle me.
I slowed my rapidly thumping heart, hoping that Ryker hadn’t picked up on it as I became 
aroused by him once more. I moved in my seat, inching closer to the table to create a bigger 
space between us. Damn that was too much electricity to maintain.
Running my hand over my eyes, I focused on the feed again. God, it was hard enough trying 
to control myself around Ryker without the embarrassment of three extra sets of highly 
perceptive eyes, and strong noses in the room. Any one of them would sure notice the rise of my 
temperature any second now.
“What are we looking for?” I asked, wondering how much I had to scan through before we 
got to the part that mattered.
“Hold on,” Hunter took the laptop, forwarding the recording at a rate humans wouldn’t have 
been able to adjust to. “Here, watch this.”
He set the computer in front of me, and instinctively Ryker and I leaned forward as we 
spotted the target. 
“We wondered from the beginning how he got in with that weapon, guess it was easy.”
I nodded to Hunter, amazed at what I’d just witnessed. “I’d had my badge checked, and a call 
to the Director before they trusted me through the gates,” I answered, remembering the day at the 
demo. “But he just walks through?” I asked, unbelieving. 
The panther strolled up to the gates, his weapon hidden under his jacket. “They didn’t search 
him?” Ryker asked, commenting on the recording.
“Nope. Not even a little.”
“Who’s the guard on duty?” I asked, knowing I needed to interrogate him.
“Forks. Evan Forks,” Drive answered. “But I’m not so sure he’s even aware of what he did. 
Look at this.”
Drive highlighted the view from another camera, zooming in on the guards face. “Watch him 
when the panther gets close.”
I did as I was told, noticing how stern the guard had been to every entrant until the panther 
came by. In an instant his eyes glossed over, and his demeanour relaxed, letting the panther go 
without a care in the world. The second he was gone, the guard returned to normal.
“Do panthers have some kind of mojo?” Thunder asked when I stopped the feed, seeing all 
there was.
I shook my head. “Not that I know of, but that was weird, right? It’s like the guard 
completely forgot what he was doing for a few seconds.” I realised that interrogating the guard 
would most likely prove to be useless. He probably didn’t have any recollection of it.
Ryker moved from behind me, the weight of his arm on my chair left as he returned to the 
oven. “Well, if it isn’t natural for panther shifters to have magic, then someone gave it to him. 
Which adds up to our theory that this was all pre-meditated.”
I agreed, realising with each new piece of information that everything led back to the fact the 
panther had known what he was doing. What we didn’t know was why, and that was most 
important.
I tried wrangling my mind over the facts, wondering what a panther had to offer to get magic 
like that. Was this a black market deal gone wrong?
“As puzzling as this may be, I say we are officially off the clock for today because it’s chow 
time. We’ll pick it back up tomorrow.”
I let my mouth hang low at Ryker, unable to switch off from the case. This was my job, my 
life. I couldn’t stop just because he said so. I didn’t have time or the luxury for guys night. 
“Don’t even think about turning down my food, princess. You can stop for one night. The 
world won’t crumble if you take a night off.”
I huffed, but with four guys staring me down it left little room to argue. I quickly weighed up 
the consequences, wondering just how productive I’d be with Ryker on my mind anyway. Maybe 
one night couldn’t hurt after all.
I powered off the laptop, set it aside in my bag, and agreed, taking the beer from Ryker’s 
outstretched hand. I laughed to myself as I thought of the situation. Had it been Harvey telling 
me what to do, I’d have done the complete opposite, just to piss him off. But when Ryker held 
the reigns, it was different, like my body wanted to be commanded by him, taken care of by him. 
As food appeared before me, any doubt that remained over work disappeared like a click of a 
finger. I didn’t care. In fact, I was beginning to realise that any allegiance, any care to the job 
was slowly fading as I became more and more invested in Ryker.
I listened to the light-hearted conversation floating around the room all night, noticing the 
happy, settled vibe they had around each other. It was like sitting at a family reunion, and I was 
the guest, glimpsing into their lives. This was Ryker’s family. It didn’t matter that he was their 
boss out on the field, they were brothers.
I felt at a loss, realising for the first time how truly empty my life was. I didn’t have family. I 
had colleagues, people I interacted with because I had to. Not like Ryker, who invited his 
brothers around because he enjoyed their company and wellbeing. 
How had I been so blind to the kind of love family gave one another? How had I become so 
warped, so guarded to what caring for someone besides myself meant?
I excused myself to the bathroom, needing a moment to get over the sudden rush of 
unfamiliar emotions. I’d been alone for so long, I’d forgotten what it felt like to be cared about. 
Wasn’t that why I had an answer for everything? To hide the hurt?
I splashed my face with cold water, gathering myself together once more before heading out. 
Maybe it was the alcohol that highlighted my despair, or maybe it was the ease and fun of the 
night that suddenly had me hoping for more, to be around everyone and not because of the job, 
because they wanted to know me.
I plastered on a smile, hoping I could return to deceiving myself that I was happy. Hell, 
tonight I was happy.
Ryker ambushed me at the door, his sexy build framing the doorway. I stopped, and looked 
into his eyes. He was watching me intently, his eyes burning into the very depths of my soul. 
Was he seeing beneath my façade?
“What’s the matter, princess? You’ve changed,” he stated.
“No I haven’t, I’m still the same,” I replied, hoping he would drop the subject as I gazed at 
him, my thoughts turning to a naked Ryker tangled up in the bed sheets.
“You can’t fool me, but if you keep staring at me with that hunger burning in your eyes, I 
won’t be valiant enough to listen.”
My aching want spiked, and I lunged at him, capturing his mouth as he caught me in his 
arms, pulling me in tight against him. I left all inhibitions, and devoured him, biting his lip as I 
loosened my restraint.
I arched into him, feeling his hands grip my arse with possession as he pressed me against 
him. I felt his rigid excitement, extremely pleased that I affected him so much.
His tongue swirled in my mouth, exploring me until he was satisfied. Though I was rough 
and ready, he wanted to take his time, trailing his lips languorously along my neck at the vein 
pulsing with my heightened blood pressure.
I desperately wanted him, needed him to let me escape in him. The doorbell rang, cutting 
through the heated excitement. He pulled away, kissing me gently, and turned to answer the 
door.
I stepped back into the bathroom, needing to see my own reflection before I joined the guys 
again. I sucked in a breath, surprised by the feral look in my eyes. My desire for Ryker sizzled 
greater than I’d imagined.
“Yes?” I heard Ryker greet as the sound of the door opened.
“Harvey Dean. We met the other day at the demo? I’m Midnight’s partner. I heard she was 
here.”
“And what of it?” Ryker seemed pissed if the impatient tone of his voice was anything to go 
by.
What the fuck was Harvey doing here?
“You’re working on our case. I deserve to be here, too. I’m her partner.”
I cringed at the claim Harvey laced on that one word. God knew he wanted that to mean 
more than it was. I sighed to myself, realising that the night was over.
I stepped out of the bathroom, and headed towards the door. “We’re done for tonight,” I said, 
letting Harvey take that in. “I’m going home. You can catch up tomorrow,” I said, giving him no 
room to rebuttal. I wasn’t in the mood to deal with him again. Not when I’d been so close to 
giving Ryker everything I’d sworn I wouldn’t do. Professionalism had left the building long ago.
Ryker glared at me like a wounded animal, but I was done with this macho showmanship 
before it had even begun. I quickly said my goodbyes, and escaped while I could, before I 
reneged on my own deal. 
Why did I have to be so complicated? I huffed, before getting into my car, and realised I was 
in no fit state to drive.
I leaned against the steering wheel, waiting for Harvey to disappear before I called a cab. Oh, 
how foolish I was to get drunk.
Chapter Nine
Ryker
CODENAME: Storm
I was just about ready to bust some balls when Harvey-fucking-Dean started waffling on about 
how he was entitled to be in my home. What impression had I given him that he’d had the right 
to be here? 
I was pissed, absolutely fucking furious that just as things started to make sense between Kira 
and I, there was an interruption to pull her away from me again.
I watched with disdain as the bitter aftertaste drove away, and then the sight of my beautiful 
Kira hunched over the steering wheel of her car caught my attention. What was she doing?
I ventured towards her, closing the door to keep the warmth in the house. I lightly tapped her 
window, doing my best not to scare her away. She looked up, and rolled the window down.
“I can’t drive,” she said. “I drank too much.”
I instantly berated myself, of course she couldn’t drive! What had I been thinking to let her 
go? “Me too,” I admitted. “Well, I’m over the legal limit that’s for sure. Come back inside. I 
have a spare bed going,” I offered, secretly hoping she would agree.
Though I’d imagined that when she’d stay it would’ve been in my bed, I didn’t want to press 
my luck. She was like a deer in headlights when it came to me. Half the time I didn’t know if she 
wanted to run to me, or away from me.
I could see the cogs ticking in her mind, and I knew if I gave her time to think she’d leave, so 
I pounced again, doing my best to persuade her.
“I’d feel a lot better knowing you were safe,” I urged.
A small smile lifted at the corner of her mouth, and I knew I’d won her over for now. “Come 
on, I’m positively catching a cold out here,” I joked, knowing she could handle the jibe.
“As if. This is balmy weather for a wolf,” she retorted, getting out of the car, and locking it 
behind her.
I wrapped my arm around her shoulders, pulling her closer to me as we returned to the house.
“Do I look meek and feeble to you?”
I stopped, caught unawares. “No, why?” 
She shrugged my arm from her shoulder, and I laughed. “Then why are you holding me?”
“Because I like you, princess,” I said, and returned my arm once more.
She huffed with irritation, sprinting ahead to loosen my hold. “You know, I could just call a 
cab instead of putting you out.”
I smiled, knowing she was going to have to try harder than that to dissuade me. “It’s not a 
problem. The guys are staying anyway, and I have more than enough room.” I fanned my arms 
out in a grand gesture, all too aware of the size of my home. As I said before, I liked my space.
“Thank you,” she said, catching me off guard again. 
“You’re welcome, princess. But next time, it’ll be my bed you’ll be sleeping in, and you 
won’t be alone,” I promised.
I took the stairs, leading the way as I left my last sentence hang in the air. I chose the nicest 
room available; it had a luxurious giant double bed that I found too soft for my likeness, and 
pointed to the en-suite. “Let me know if you need anything.”
She smiled. “Thank you. Goodnight, Ryker.”
I took that as my cue to leave, and fought the urge to embrace her, to lay a kiss upon her 
delicate mouth, but I didn’t want to overstep my boundaries. Not now. Not when she seemed so 
close. “Goodnight, princess.”
I closed the door behind me, and leaned against the woodwork for a moment or two, catching 
my breath. Every fibre of my being protested that I was walking away, leaving my mate alone.
I shook my head, hoping the thoughts of claiming would flee from my mind. Knowing sleep 
would evade me for hours, I returned to the living room, and mindlessly watched whatever the 
guys had rolling. 
I was in for a long night.
~
Waking to the smell of bacon drifting to my room was like waking up to heaven. I dragged my 
sore limbs out of bed, feeling the restlessness of the night catch up to me. “Good morning,” I 
mumbled as I entered the room, seeing Hunter working his way around my kitchen. 
Guys night was simple enough. Beer, food, fun. It didn’t matter what we ended up doing, as 
long as we enjoyed, but come the next day there was one rule. If I’d cooked dinner, then they 
cooked breakfast, and I relished it every time. There was nothing better than waking to breakfast 
already made for you.
“You look like shit, Storm. What happened?” Hunter smirked, a knowing grin adorned his 
face.
I was about to retort with some ugly pleasantries when Kira came into the room with a spring 
in her step. Well, she definitely seemed better than she had last night. And hell was she even 
more beautiful first thing in the morning.
“Good morning, gentlemen.”
I smiled in acknowledgement, noticing a change in her again. Had she decided to warm up to 
me?
“Did you sleep well?” I asked, envious that I hadn’t been the one to snuggle against her body 
all night.
Wait. What the fuck was that girly talk invading my thoughts? The guys had been right in the 
pub the other day. I had grown a vagina.
“Mmmhmmm,” she mumbled as she took a sip of water. “That bed is better than mine.”
“You’re welcome to stay any time,” I said, secretly thinking all the time.
“Thanks, but, I should get. . .” Her voice trailed off at the sound of her phone ringing. She 
glared at the screen before answering, checking the time on her watch. It was seven a.m.
“Midnight,” she said, silencing as she listened.
I watched her face, seeing her eyebrows rise. “Really? I’m surprised. I thought our leads had 
gone cold.”
That caught my interest. There’d obviously been some developments on the panther. I looked 
to Hunter who continued busying himself with the makings of breakfast, and I left him to it, too 
caught up in Kira’s call.
“Get the lab to send it to me, and I’ll track them down. Thanks, Mike!” She hung up, and 
turned to me, a smile on her face. 
“Good news?” I asked.
She nodded. “You remember Mike, the coroner, said he’d found some trace and stuff?”
I nodded, letting her go on. “Turns out the lab managed to get a partial fingerprint off of the 
victim’s wallet.”
“And I’m guessing they got a match?” I asked, knowing it was the reason for her infectiously 
happy mood.
Her phone signalled a text. “Let’s see who our suspect is,” she said, pressing down on the 
screen. 
She remained quiet, her forehead creased with her frown. She looked up at me, eyes wide 
with worry. What was wrong?
I moved to join her, taking the phone from her hand to stare at the info highlighting her 
screen. 
I balked, my mind raced as fast as it could with explanations for understanding what I saw. 
How was this so?
I touched the screen again, needing to see the face staring back at me, making sure I hadn’t 
imagined what I’d just seen. 
I hadn’t. It was still him. His face was still there.
The number one suspect to the crime of murdering the panther stood in my kitchen, cooking 
breakfast.
It was Hunter.
To be continued in Alpha Wanted: Part 2 out in one week! Sign up to my newsletter to be 
notified of future releases, cover reveals etc. here: http://bit.ly/XgVyAg
If you enjoyed the first part to this serial, please consider leaving a review to let other readers 
know. They help me to continue my passion, and bring the stories keeping me awake at night to 
life. It’s thanks to your support that I’m able to do what I love. Thank you!
Titles by Justine Winter
Full Length Novels:
Nature’s Destiny (Book 1, Nature’s Destiny series)
Sapphire’s Divinity (Book 2, Nature’s Destiny series)
Guardians Dynasty (Book 3, Nature’s Destiny series)
Serials:
Alpha Wanted: Part 1
Alpha Wanted: Part 2 (coming soon)
Alpha Wanted: Part 3 (coming soon)
About the Author
I’ve always lived a life based on my imagination, from hopeless dreams of romance to 
concocting alternate realities involving supernaturals. I’m completely fascinated with anything 
hero-related, and often speculate which superpower I’d possess. I haven’t settled on one yet.
I was born in England, and currently reside in Wales, UK. I love to write, and most days 
you’ll find me happily tapping away at the computer whilst in my pyjama-clad bubble. I also 
spend my time reading, and if that isn’t enough I’m often in the kitchen baking up a treat.
If you want to know more about me, you can find me pretty much everywhere!
Visit my Website: http://justinewinter.wordpress.com/
Add me on Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/justine.winter.7921
‘Like’ my Page: https://www.facebook.com/JustineWinterAuthor?fref=ts
Follow me on Twitter: https://twitter.com/JustineWinter
Follow me on Pinterest: http://www.pinterest.com/justinewinter33/
Follow me on Instagram: http://instagram.com/justinewinter91
If you want to stay in touch with all my bookish news, feel free to sign up to my newsletter 
here: http://bit.ly/XgVyAg
Finally, you can e-mail me at justinewinter@hotmail.co.uk.
I love to hear your feedback! <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
An Exiled Knight and the 3rd Princess, 
A terrible combo
Volume I
Prologue – The Savagers 
The Algard Empire’s Capital Place. In the courtyard. The 
scenario was something like this  
 A young man about in his 17s 
Was found kneeling on the floor with two guards casting 
their swords on to his head and He was wearing an armour 
of the Algard Kingdom, He had brown coloured hair. He 
gave a weird feeling of unhappiness, to full-fill that he was 
tied with mana absorbing chains, which were held up the 2 
soldiers who had their swords on his neck. He was 
surrounded by 2 parallel lines of men, mainly consisting of 
nobles and higher military general of the Algard Kingdom. In 
th
front of him, was the 14  King of the Algard Empire, his 
Majesty the King ‘Flourus von re Algard ‘
“Rayce Welford of the eastern border, as an act of treason 
you are here exiled from the Empire of Algard and your 
arms will be taken by the Empire” A officer from the royal 
court of Algard
“Furthermore, your titles and properties would be taken 
away by the Empire and given out the Nobles” The 
properties of Rayce Welford were slim to none but his titles 
were second to none like ‘The holder of the demonic sword 
of destruction’ or like the ‘ dragon of destruction’ or ‘the 
knight in black and red’, a person’s title determines the 
strength of the power they held, A person’s power varies 
with the difference between there titles. If someone 
acquires someone’s else title, they are directly obligated to 
the person power and strength even thou they aren’t worthy 
of it. In this world getting a good title is the only way to get 
recognized, by taking away Rayce’s title the King ensured 
that there was no way he could ever show his face to 
anyone and giving his title to a nobleman would make the 
person a perfect fit for a royal consort.
“Knight Rayce, Rayce due to the disrespect of the act of 
civil violation who should live a life of an exile and your titles 
will be removed” Rayce heard these words as left the royal 
court. His armour was torn apart beyond recognition by the 
numerous one-sided Knights.  
*
About 10 days ago, The eastern border- 
“Knight Rayce do you really intend to fight, there is just no 
way you could ever fight such a group of this size.” A group 
of almost of 37 soldiers were standing in front of Rayce, 
they were the soldiers which stood beside Rayce when he 
had to fought the invading nation of Glehara   
“I told you that I am the knight in black and red, I will never 
give up at least until I don’t know what to do” Rayce had his 
usual face of an overconfident knight who was facing death. 
He had earned the title ‘The knight in black and red’ by 
sheer hard work, he had to mastered 2 magical elements 
without any formal education and he also learnt a 
swordsmanship befitting a noble which all was done in total 
of 3 years which was as close as the time the hero of light 
took to conquer the demon lord’s domain and establish 
peace with the demon race. Rayce knew that  this was a 
plan made by the Earl Edmar Brice, he had a plan going for 
about 2 weeks which included the submission of Knight 
Rayce as an exiled. He wanted to make the young Knight 
attack the soldiers  of his domain. If a soldier fights with 
another soldier or is killed by one the attendance, the 
audience would be exiled, thou this law is to be broken in-
case of self-defence, Earl Edmar made it sure that all the 
soldiers  s under Knight Rayce were given about 10 gold 
coins to transcribe their words. 
The currency used in the Empire of Algard is Altus where 
10 Altus = 1 copper coin, 10 copper coins = 1 silver coin, 10 
silver coins = 1 gold coin and 10 gold coins = 1 Algard coin 
and 10 Algard coins = 1 Shattonie coin. A Shattonie coin 
also known as the world coin it prize remains the same 
everywhere you go in this world. As Algard is the biggest 
and the most powerful nation now its second currency the 
Imperial coin or the Algard coin, its value changes with 
accordance to the place. To put it simply 1 Altus = 1 Dollar 
so then I gold coin is equal about 1000$ so Earl Edmar 
gave the soldiers  s of Rayce about 10,000$ which were 
used to bend them according to his will. 
“Let the Flames of hell Burn through my blade” A purple 
flame fire covered Rayce’s sword as he rushed towards the 
soldiers. 
“You…… are just weak pathetic humans, who won’t give a 
shit to loyalty” As Rayce started saying these words his 
body stared to shape shift into a very distinct looking 
humanoid dragon. His body was covered by dragon scales 
with a blue hue, one sharp pointed tooth stuck out from his 
lower right side of the jaw, his brown eyes turned into a 
bright golden colour a small horn came arising from the 
midpoint of his nose. As he touched his sword the sword 
turned purple and darker as he grabbed it from its 
scabbard, his arms which were the only part which looked 
like that of a human now had transform into that of a 
dragonborn.  
“I will say this last time, come back with us Rayce obey him, 
accept your fate” The man leading the army of soldiers 
yelled at Rayce. He had his sword drawn out indicating that 
he would order a forward march on Rayce at any point of 
view if he disagrees.
“Looks like you will need to try something else to draw me 
out” Rayce gave a huge glare towards the man in-charge. 
This made cleared that Rayce had totally declined the 
proposal of the opposition. He knew that he had no chances 
of winning thou Rayce was one of the most powerful 
Knights of all time still there was no way he could ever take 
all of them at once. The men who were send after Rayce 
were the Holy Imperial Knights (now at least) all he could do 
was try to not die. And that was how the Knight Rayce 
Welford was brought to the court of Algard and then later 
Exiled.   
*
The Royal conference hall 15 days ago 
The King seated himself at the head of the table which was 
followed by the seating of his council and the ministers of 
the state along with some good and absolute trustworthy 
nobles. “Are the Preparations been met” The King spoke in 
a loud voice indicating every one that their seat was at 
stake. “Your excellences here is the list of the attendees 
you wanted, those whose magical power level ranks 
beyond the A rank” As one of the council members passed 
a booklet towards the King which he grabbed as soon as it 
reached his hands. “We would really love if we were briefed 
about the reason why we are called here today in the 
meeting of the council” A group of the nobles spoke up to 
the King hoping to get a good and reasonable answer as 
now they were in the danger of losing their title as nobles. 
“Oh, looks like I didn’t even tell you about it” The King 
nodded towards the council “Carlos could you just do the 
work for me”
“As you all know the battle against the Uralia Empire has 
ended as well as the conquest of the demon lord, so 
therefore there is no need of the knights who are stronger 
than an A rank adventure. Thus, our Empire is the power 
source of the entire world. This is a big achievement for our 
Empire but at the same it is in a difficult state to keep. On 
research there is a possibility that the Empire will fall in the 
next 25 years with rise in power of the Knights and the 
military generals.” As one of the council members 
concluded his thoughts about what he was ordered, The 
Earl Edmar opened this loud mouth and started to speak. 
“So, what do you want us to do now” Looking at the 
ministers and the King at the same time, “If you really want 
us to surrender our armies towards you, your excellence, 
you know it’s an impossible order to follow.” A member from 
the council followed “Earl Edmar, we don’t want you to 
surrender your or anyone’s army, we just want to get rid of 
every Knight who is stronger or ranks above the Standard 
A rank of Adventures Guild” The King wanted to get rid of 
all these Knights or military generals only because he had a 
feeling that ones with power might revolt  the system and 
ultimately take down the Empire.
And so almost entirety of the Empire’s Knights (above A 
rank) were taken down. Knights who were taken out were 
came to be known as the Savagers. They were exiled from 
the Kingdom of Algard and were charged almost 10 times 
the normal tax rate if they wanted to keep living in the 
Kingdom. Many of the Savagers were also targeted by 
bounty hunters, thou bounty hunting is illegal in Algard it 
was permitted for the bounty of Savagers. People hated the 
Savagers as the Pope had named them the enemy of God. 
But leaving that Savagers are still consider as a member of 
the society thou only some people treat them equally, 
before getting Exiled each and every Savagers had the 
spell of Eneefled casted upon them. Eneefled a SS rank holy 
magic spell a spell which is even difficult for an S rank 
adventurer, it forces the target to abandoned over 50% of their 
total magic power which means each and every Knight who 
was above or an A rank now would be somewhere between D 
to C rank. Getting rid of their Titles and now that of their 50% 
power they were expected to perish, but their 1000 hours of 
training didn’t go to waste they were easily able to live a 
stealthy and a slow life among the commoners who treated 
them equally and fairly. A group of knights known as the 
Creation Knights were loyal to the King and the council as well 
as to the nobles, they were all somewhere near the S rank 
boarder leaving them, every one of the Knights were forced to 
get rid of their power and titles. The Job of the Creation Knights 
was to ensure peace and freedom of the Kingdom. They were 
given the title of a noble and were feed properly and had 
constant power checks along with over 100 spies on them. 
Their only job was to look after the security of the kingdom and 
maintain national law.           <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
 Beast   in the Darkness 
An Elighan Dragen Novelette
Chapter One
The tree pressed hard into my back as I leaned into it. The solidness of it eased the pain that 
stabbed over every inch of my body. My fingers wrapped around the last wooden dagger which 
lay entrenched in my skin. I grunted as I tugged it out. Blood trickled out the dozens of holes 
where I had already removed the wooden spears. I had deserved each one and let them impale 
deep into my body without a fight. Lorcan had not felt the same. He yowled and fought every 
one of them that had burrowed in. He took off moments after Brycin had. 
Nothing about my night had gone to plan. Good and bad.
Just an hour ago, my cock had been deep in her. Happy. It was the first time I had ever felt 
that way while fucking a woman. It was the truth when I told her I would follow her anywhere. I 
realized when she left the ranch a few months before I didn’t like her not being around. Wanting 
and missing someone was completely alien to me. Fae, Nymph, Water Fairy, even human, I had 
always enjoyed their company, but not much thought went into them after we fucked. This one . . 
. this one had been different from the beginning. I had hated her at first for it, trying to continue 
to deny my feelings for the Dae. That was no longer possible.
Showing myself to her tonight hadn’t been a premeditated plan to bed her. Actually it was one 
of the last things I thought she would do. Hit me, yell at me, throw me into a tree . . . well, all 
those things had happened, but I didn’t expect my dick to be in her while she did them. Her 
slight innocence on what to do, but her strong desire to be free, inhibited, and unrelenting, 
completely undid me.
Then Lorcan changed everything. All the trust she had shown me earlier disappeared—
transformed to hatred and a look of utter betrayal.
“Fuck!” I yelled up at the night sky. Everything was so screwed up now. Her revulsion of me 
was clear. Who could blame her? When you hear the guy you just slept with killed your mother, 
it kind of changes things. There was so much Brycin didn’t know. So many lies were tangled and 
woven together. That’s how the Fae were. Secrets were the law we lived by. Truth held great 
power in the Otherworld. We traded, negotiated, and dealt in secrets. We also kept them. We had 
been since the day the Seelie King took the Fae into hiding in the Otherworld. 
I sat there till the sky began to lighten, recalling what had happened and what I could have 
said differently. It probably didn’t matter; the outcome would have been the same. In the end she 
would have left. Truth would make sure of that. Forcing myself to stand, I wanted to see her 
once more, even if I only saw a glimpse of her through her window. It would be enough, it would 
have to be. The thought of seeing her roll around again with the Incubus had me growling. Not 
5
that I had the right anymore. Hell, he was probably better for her than me. I needed to walk away 
from her. If she knew what had really happened . . . yeah, it was better if I left.
I hobbled towards the spot where I could see her room. She was near, my blood in her 
thumped like a GPS. I seemed to be able to feel her farther out than she could feel me. That 
helped me find her in Seattle and how I found her here. 
I took a step and grunted. The punctures were healing, but still stung like a bitch. It would 
hurt to shift, but I’d heal faster in my Dark Dweller form. I was about to turn when a sharp 
ripping pain ran through my veins. My knees gave out and I crumbled to the ground. It was like 
knives slicing at me from the inside. Then it dissipated and everything went cold. Silent. I gasped 
for breath, feeling an emptiness I had never known before. 
Ember.
When I first gave her my blood and I felt the humming of me running through her, it bothered 
me. It was intrusive and intimate. Then it became white noise in the background. I grew used to 
it. Now it was a part of me. How I knew I was alive. Because she was alive.
Now I felt nothing.
That only meant two things. She was suddenly out of my range, which would be strange since 
I felt her near just a minute ago. 
Or she was dead. She had been out of my range before—it had never felt like this. 
“BRYCIN!” I roared, my legs pushed me up and forward. She couldn’t be dead; there was no 
way. Then the thoughts started rolling into my head. What if Lorcan went to find her and 
something happened? Would he kill her? Or did she finally have enough? No, Brycin would 
never kill herself no matter what happened. It was not who she was. She was too strong for that. 
She would try to kill me first.
I ran not knowing where I was going, but hoping with one more step, I would feel the blood 
dance inside me again.
Instinct kicked in as my adrenaline hit uncontrollable levels. My body responded and I let the 
call of the beast take over. My spine curved taking me down. My clothes shredded as the beast 
formed. Throughout my change I never stopped running. Hours went by, even when the sun 
grew high in the sky, I didn’t stop. I trailed the outer rim of the Unseelie King’s property, 
moving out in intervals.
It was only in extreme cases we stayed in our Dark Dweller form. It was too risky, but I didn’t 
care. Her smell was easier to track in this shape. I could smell her scent out beyond Lars’ border, 
but I couldn’t tell how recent it was. 
Hunger and fatigue did not stop me. The only thing which did was hearing the Demon and his 
minions leave the safety of his property to go looking for her also. My hopes she remained 
somehow safely back in her room in his compound vanished.
She was gone.
A roar so deep within me thundered against the mountains, shaking the surface below.
6
Chapter Two
Three years later
The fumes of cheap whiskey burnt up through my nose as I took another swing. My reflection 
in the cracked mirror taunted me. A week ago I was the one who had thrown someone into it, 
causing the crack. I guess I should be thankful Mike had let me back in tonight. The other guy 
had been an asshole, and deserved what he got. Now a huge guy in the fractured mirror stared 
back at me. His shaved head, scarred face, hard expression, and extremely taut shoulders looked 
like he would snap your neck like a toothpick if you even looked his way. My Dark Dweller 
nature loved this. I was back to who I was supposed to be—a killer—something to be feared. 
That fucker, Drauk, was right. I had become a pussy. I had gotten soft living here on Earth. She 
had turned me weak, making me all human-like, with feelings. 
Just thinking of her now had me reaching for my triple shot of whiskey. I slammed the rest of 
it down my throat.
“Ahhh, yeah that’s the stuff.” I wiped my mouth with the back of my hand. I could feel the 
killer in me building again which put me in a fighting mood. “Another one, Mike.” I tapped at 
my glass. 
He frowned and grabbed the bourbon bottle. He was never one to cut anyone off. If the money 
kept coming, he kept pouring. Last week he had cut me off. I guess I couldn’t blame him I 
trashed his bar. Someone called the police and once again, for the seventh time this month, I had 
been arrested. When I escaped Weiss’ feeble cuffs and ran off, he had put a warrant out for my 
arrest. I knew tonight’s crowd. No one would call. 
“I don’t want no fights in here,” Mike grumbled as he poured the dark liquid in my glass.
I grabbed the glass and held it up. “I promise not to start any fights,” I replied back. With 
anyone that doesn’t deserve it, I thought to myself.
Mike huffed, shaking his head.
That hadn’t always been the case lately—deserved or not, if you got in my way or irritated 
me, my fist found a way to your face. Gulping down another burning swallow, my adrenaline 
picked up. Oh yeah, the Dark Dweller was pawing at the surface, ready and willing, for someone 
to come up and start something.
“How’d I know I’d find you here?”
I looked up into the broken mirror, a warped image of Cooper stood behind me.
“Because you’re just brilliant like that,” I retorted.
 Cooper’s hand pounded down on my shoulder. “Yeah, that must be it.” He sat on the stool 
next to me and held up two fingers. “A beer, Mike.”
I scoffed as I tilted my glass back.
“Hey, one of us has to be clear-headed enough to get you out of whatever mess you’re gonna 
get yourself into.” Cooper took a swing of the beer Mike had placed in front of him. “Our 
Second sure as hell won’t be sober, so I guess that means it has to be me.”
A growl only Cooper could hear came from my chest. It wasn’t the first time I heard 
7
comments about me falling down on my job. There was a time I cared about my role as Second. I 
had wanted it then. No longer did I feel that way. I just wanted to be left alone. It still bugged 
me, though, because I hated being reminded I failed. Again, it all stemmed back to her.
“You better be careful. Weiss has a hard-on for you. Take it easy tonight.”
My glass clinked on the wood as I slammed it down. “You think I should be afraid of that 
asshole? He’s a measly human. What the fuck do I care? And when hasn’t he had it out for me?”
Cooper’s eyes darted around. My outburst had his panties all in a twist. He was still a little 
apprehensive because, on a few occasions, usually in the middle of a fight, I had started to shift 
in front of the humans. Most of the time I got so drunk I hadn’t remembered it the next day. But 
really, so what? They saw my eyes and claws turn, but they had been drinking, too. They 
wouldn’t actually believe it happened.
I gave up on caring awhile back.
“We have a run tomorrow. Cole would like you sober enough to do the drop, if that’s at all 
possible.” Cooper no longer hid his annoyance with me. Cooper and Gabby were the only ones 
who would still say what they felt to my face. Cole had tried. We had even got into a huge 
physical altercation a year ago. We both beat the shit out of each other and walked away even 
madder than we were before. He mostly ignored me now. His focus was trying to get Jared back 
from the Otherworld—if the kid was even alive anymore.
I took the last gulp in my glass, letting it burn down my chest. If only it would take away all 
my failures, starting with what happened to my parents. Then it would need to move on to how I 
let Jared get past me. I should have stopped him, protected him. Sadly, I needed to shield him 
from his own uncle. Another mistake had been not killing Lorcan. Because I didn’t have the 
strength or will power to kill my own brother, I had lost two of my family. 
We had stopped feeling West over three years ago and assumed he was dead. There was little 
doubt Lorcan had killed him. West should never have left with them. He hadn’t known how far 
Lorcan would really go in his pursuit to get back into the Otherworld. None of us really did. Now 
West was gone.
Because of Lorcan, we had lost Jared, too. Jared was part human so he didn’t have as strong 
an internal connection to the Dark Dweller as the rest of us did.  She  had been my only 
connection to Jared. Through the dreamscapes, which she brought me in on, I would learn she 
would see him and her friends in her dreamwalk. The night she disappeared she had told me 
Jared was all right. That was three years ago. We didn’t know if he was all right or not anymore. 
All these things piled on top of my biggest regret. I didn’t know if it was for letting her in or 
letting her slip through my fingers. It didn’t matter anymore. For two years I had searched for 
her. There wasn’t a place I hadn’t venture to, thinking maybe if I went a little farther she would 
be there. I went crazy tracking her.
I only turned human if I needed to talk to someone; otherwise, for two years, I had mostly 
remained in my Dark Dweller form. I slipped from town to town through the night, living on 
fresh deer carcass. Even a year after returning home, it remained hard for me to stay in my two-
8
legged physique. The Dweller did not want to go back. It wanted out and it wanted to kill. 
“I think I can handle a drop.” I tapped my glass on the bar, trying to get Mike’s attention. This 
was a precarious time for me: still sober enough to feel my raging anger, but drunk enough to act 
on it. I wasn’t adequately numb yet. A few more drinks and I’d hit that blissful place where I 
didn’t feel or care. Sleep hadn’t offered peace to me in years. Drinking myself into oblivion was 
one of the only ways I found it.
“Cole is expanding a deal with the Apocalypse Riders. A few of them want to go with us for 
the drop tomorrow. To have it known we have their back. They’ve had some trouble with the 
Portland Hells Angels.”
My mind immediately flashed back to Puck and McNamm, two ex-riders of the club. Cooper 
must have forgotten. He would never intentionally bring up anything related to her anymore. I 
had flown off the handle too many times when they had. The thought of Puck’s and McNamm’s 
hands anywhere on her body still made me see red. Good thing they were already six feet under, 
because the pain I would inflict on them now. They had made it out easy. The killer in me 
wanted them alive again, just so I could hunt them down and tear them apart bit by bit. Slowly.
Glass shattered breaking around my hand.
“Jesus Christ, Dragen!” Mike yelled from the other side of the bar. “You want to add that to 
your tab as well? If ya ever pay me, that is.”
I dug into my pocket and pulled out my wallet, slapping a hundred on the counter. “Here. Will 
that shut you up, old man? Now can I have another fuckin’ drink?”
Mike’s eyes narrowed. He had always respected us, giving us more leeway than he gave 
others. I think deep down Mike sensed something different about our group and had a healthy 
fear of us. I knew I had been pushing that line with him. Just another thing I didn’t care about.
Cooper rubbed his face as Mike swept away the broken glass and then filled a new one with 
cheap liquor.
Cooper turned and faced me when Mike got out of earshot. “We’re all done with your shit, 
Eli. We’ve given you space, but seriously it is time.” He stressed the last three words. “I don’t 
know what happened with her, but I can guess . . .”
It was instantaneous. I pushed off my stool. Fury roared under the skin. The topic of her was 
off limits.
Cooper sighed. “Jesus man you need to get it together. You are completely unraveled. She is 
gone Eli. You need to deal with that.”
They had stopped saying her name some time ago. Owen had ended up flat against a wall 
with a broken nose one night when he referred to her by name.  
Brycin . . . one simple word evoked a torrent of emotions. The absence of feeling my blood 
humming in her still had not eased. You’d think by now I would be back to how I felt before I 
gave her my blood. But, like I changed her DNA, she seemed to have changed mine. Now I only 
felt emptiness there.
To be fair, the night I hit Owen was the night the Unseelie King had tracked me down. He had 
never officially dropped the reward he placed on Brycin’s head for breaking her contract with 
9
him. I figured he put it there so he had others looking for her as well. They came up with 
nothing. He told me it was pointless. If the Unseelie King couldn’t find you . . . you were 
probably dead. 
That was the night I officially understood she was gone. For good.
“Fuck sake, Eli, calm down. I won’t bring her up again.” Cooper kicked at my stool. “Now, 
sit the hell back down.”
Air filtered roughly through my nose as I breathed out. It took me several moments before I 
calmed down enough. As I sat back down on the seat my phone buzzed in my pocket. A slightly 
trashy, but beautiful, dark haired brunette showed up on the screen. Her lips puckered in a kiss.
I clicked it off and shoved it back into my pocket. In my current mood I had no doubt I would 
end up knocking on her door later this evening. But no matter what, she could never fulfill me or 
the Dark Dweller which raged inside. Only one had ever appeased the animal. Though nothing 
would ever tame it; there was only one it truly craved. One it would never have again.
“Will you answer her so she will stop calling me, looking for you?” Cooper nodded towards 
the phone in my pocket.
I frowned and took a sip of my drink.
“Natasha is coming tomorrow so you better deal with her.”
My frown deepened. She was only interested in her father’s dealings when they involved me. 
I still recalled the night Natasha had kissed me at that bonfire party when I was looking for 
Brycin. That night everything changed. Our connection solidified. 
Natasha had been convenient and easy. I had never led her to believe I was in it past the 
fucking. She always seemed to want to make me the guy who would change for her. I wasn’t the 
first guy she screwed in hopes he’d eventually fall in love with her, but she seemed most 
determined for it to be me. I had always been upfront and honest, but she only heard what she 
wanted. That wasn’t my fault. She was a good lay; desperation to claim me had her open to 
anything, to try anything. I used it to my benefit. Compassion was not a Dark Dweller trait. 
Cooper turned back to his beer at my non-response. We drank in silence. Tonight the alcohol 
was not calming me down. My shoulders hunched more and my muscles twitched. The beast was 
hitting itself against the man-form I contained it in.
I stood. “Come on, let’s ride.” Being on my bike was sometimes the only other way, besides 
drinking, to quiet my inner monster for a while. 
Cooper stood and slapped another bill on the counter. “Thanks, Mike.” 
Mike gave us a nod, and I could smell the relief he felt at our departure. My presence seemed 
to cause an air of tension, sensing at any moment I could violently turn. Humans seemed to feel 
the thin line of sanity I was walking. 
We went outside, my steel-tip boots kicking up dirt in the parking lot. My legs straddled my 
black beauty.
“Where to?” Cooper hopped on his baby, next to me.
“Let’s just ride.”
He nodded in understanding. This is what we did when we needed an escape. No destination. 
10
No thought. Wherever the road took us.
The tires squealed as I pulled out onto the pavement, my engine revving high. The moment 
the wind brushed over my scalp, I felt better. I had shaved my head in one of my agro moments. 
The severe look suited me better now. People had always feared me, but this only made them 
know, instantly, I was not someone to mess with.  
My wheels flew over the asphalt. The high speed wasn’t enough tonight. The bike’s odometer 
shook, trying to reach the red. My hand twisted the throttle until it could no longer turn. The 
distance between Cooper and me widened. For miles I pushed it, barely staying on the road.
Red and blue light came out of the darkness, swirling behind us. I knew who it was. He was 
out searching for me. This only upped my recklessness. Well, he found his man . . . let’s see if he 
can catch him. I sneered, almost willing Weiss to start shooting at me. The fact I wouldn’t die 
from his bullets only made me want to push the envelope more. What did it matter? 
“Pull over.” A voice came over the speakers on top the police car.
My answer was to flip him off.
He has a warrant out for you. You really want to piss him off? Cooper said through our link. 
Most had given up communicating with me through our link. Pointless when I ignored them.
Let him try and catch me, I replied back. You’re a Dark Dweller, Cooper, get some fuckin’ 
balls.
The sigh through the link was loud. I knew him and, no matter what, he would follow me 
down this road. We don’t leave brothers. Cooper hit the gas and came up even with me.
Come on, it will be fun. I egged him on.
If my bike gets impounded again . . . Cooper trailed off in warning.
Stop being a baby.
“Pull over immediately,” Weiss’ voice came from behind us.
Ready?
Yeah . . . sure.
We both punched our gas pedals and the bikes lurched forward. We glided around the curves. 
The cop car losing pace as it tried to round the bends.
Too easy. Just as the thought came out, I spotted two police cars blocking the road in front of 
us. Guns drawn as they hid behind their open doors. 
A gun shot rang through the air.
“Shit!” Cooper yelled. The bullet ripped through his tire. His wheels came out from 
underneath him. He fell to the ground, cracking his shoulder. His bike skid across the pavement 
as he rolled. The motorcycle continued to slide, causing sparks to fly, crashing into the bumper 
of the police car.
“Ciach ort!” I hit my brakes, curving in front of Cooper. My brother was down; my defenses 
to protect him went up.
“Freeze!” One of the cops yelled.
Ignoring him I reached down for Cooper’s injured arm. He was out. “Wake up, Coop.” I 
nudged him with my foot. Panic rose in my chest. The beast danced at the surface.
11
Weiss’ vehicle halted close behind us, blocking us in a tighter circle, only pushing my 
instincts into a higher gear.
“Stop, Mr. Dragen. Do not move!” Weiss pointed his gun as he climbed out of the car.
My head turned to him, a roar involuntary coming out of me. Weiss stumbled back a little, 
shaking his head. I knew my eyes had flashed red. I could feel the heat rising in my skin, 
shifting, and my nails beginning to grow, my back hunching.
Learned instinct still wanted me to hide my true self and push the change back down. 
Everything else in me didn’t care. I could tear through these guys in seconds without the other 
knowing. Why did I pretend they had the upper hand?
When Weiss looked back, he re-gripped his gun, swallowing hard. Like every human he 
dismissed what he saw.
“Let’s not make this hard. You are surrounded. If you surrender without a fight, I’ll be sure to 
make a note in your report.”
I laughed. My nails were still longer than normal, and they dug into Cooper. The pain woke 
him up. He groaned, using my arm to pull himself up, he saddled in behind me. 
“I am going to fuckin’ kill you later,” he mumbled.
“Let’s get out of here first.” Again my own words rubbed me wrong. Why was I running from 
them? What could they actually do to me? 
“Mr. Dragen, I said don’t move. I will shoot you.”
A sardonic grin crept up my lips. “Oh, please do.” I climbed off the bike.
“What the hell are you doing?” Cooper took the handles, procuring the weight of the bike 
from me.
“Giving the officer what he wants.” I held my arms out wide. “Go ahead.” I tapped the middle 
of my chest.
As I stepped toward Weiss, his finger seemed to itch to pull the trigger. “What happened to 
Ember Brycin, Mr. Dragen? She’s been missing for three years. The last time I saw her she was 
covered in blood and her friends had gone missing.”
My boots froze mid-step.
“Did she finally turn against you? See you for what you really are? Is her body, along with her 
father’s and her friends’, buried in a shallow grave on this allusive property of yours?”
It was like an axe had been driven into my chest. His theory once again was way off, but his 
words, of her being dead, hit too close to home.
I heard Cooper swear. My back started to curve again, my clothes began to tear. A menacing 
growl vibrated my vocal chords. Cooper revved the engine turning the bike towards me. 
From there everything went sharply south. Cooper’s movement had the other two officers 
shooting at us. My slightly altered shape, high-tailing it for Weiss’ throat, had him firing. I felt 
each and every bullet dig into my skin, and I welcomed the pain. 
Cooper sped up next to me.
“Get on,” he screamed.
I hesitated. The need to tear the sheriff’s throat out was so strong. I needed to kill, to have his 
12
blood dripping from my teeth.
NOW! The volume from Cooper’s link split my head, breaking my bond to kill Weiss. 
Another bullet plowed into my side. With a roar I turned instead and began to run down the side 
of the mountain. My hands and legs becoming more equal in length as my body changed. My 
clothes ripped completely away as the beast emerged.
With one last look over my shoulder, I saw Cooper pop a wheelie and break past Weiss, 
knocking him to the ground. The two other officers shot at the back of him, but the bike 
disappeared before they even got back to their cars.
I turned back and tore through the forest. I roared again, anger and guilt thundered in me. 
Once again I had screwed everything up because someone uttered her name. She was dead, and I 
not only hated her, I resented her ever coming into my life.
13
Chapter Three
The morning light brought no brightness to my day. I craved the dark nights. Most days I 
remained in my room, staying there till night fall.
I rolled over with a groan, rubbing at the healing scars where each bullet had been. Remaining 
in my Dark Dweller form the rest of the night had helped heal me, but the bruises and soreness 
were still raw and painful.
I needed to check on Cooper. I paused remembering he lost his bike in the ordeal last night. 
Yeah . . . I’ll wait a bit longer. I leaned against the headboard. He was gonna be so pissed. I’d 
have to buy him a new Harley next time we got paid.
“Eli.” A fist pounded on my door. “Get up, it’s time to go,” Gabby said through my door.
Right. The drop.
“I’ll be out in a minute.” I snarled, swinging my legs over the bed. I stood, rubbing my bare 
ass as I walked to the dresser. I yanked it open and looked for my least dirty jeans.
My fingers stopped on a t-shirt, and I caressed the fabric with the familiar paint stains on it. 
Even though I knew I was alone, my gaze still darted around the room. If anyone caught me . . .
No one knew about this. No one ever would. It was the last thing I had of her. 
The bank had just taken possession of her house when I snuck in. Her smell was rich and 
thick through the house. It had taken me to my knees the first time I had entered. The crushing 
pain of her loss had made it hard to breathe. My brain kept thinking that she would walk out of 
her room at any moment, put her hands on her hips, and ask what the hell I was doing there? 
Then the slight stink of the Strighoul and a mix of Vek’s and Ember’s blood, stained on the 
wood floor, would remind me. The smell and sight of her blood had me exiting the house. I 
swore to never go back. But the need for her, to be near her again, if only by her smell and 
possessions, pulled me back. I’m not sentimental, but I found myself stuffing the paint stained t-
shirt she slept in, her sketch pad, baby book, and a few other keepsakes into my bag. The bank 
would sell or donate it all, glad to get rid of it. It would be gone forever. Brycin would officially 
disappear from my life.
I stuffed her shirt farther back in my drawer and snatched a pair of jeans and light weight t-
shirt. The summer in Olympia had been unseasonably hot. Usually it stayed pretty mild, but it 
was as if my personal hell had come to life.
Shading my eyes from the glaring sun, I walked out on the porch. Cooper leaned against the 
rail, his arms crossed.
“Hey man . . . I am so . . .” I was stopped when his fist smashed into my face. The force took 
me to the ground, blood gushing from my nose.
Cooper stepped on either side of me, grabbing my shirt. His fist poised to punch again. “If 
you ever do something like that again—I will challenge you.”
To “challenge” me meant he would fight me for my position in the clan. It didn’t have to be a 
fight to the death, but it got close enough. If I lost, it would be worse than death. I didn’t think 
14
Cooper could take me in a fight; I was sure he knew it, too. But that made it even worse. Even if 
he knew he’d lose, he’d rather challenge me than continue under my authority. I never imagined 
losing Cooper’s respect. It hit me hard. Shocking me.
“You got it?” He tugged at my shirt again.
“Yeah. I got it.” I let the blood trail out of my nose, my eyes locked with his.
“You scared the fuck out of me last night. Reckless and stupid. If you had done that to anyone 
else but me, this wouldn’t have been a warning this morning. It would have been a challenge.”
I took in his words and nodded in understanding. 
He opened his palm out to me. I grabbed it as he yanked me back up.
“You owe me a bike, fucker.”
I patted his back. “Yeah, I do.”
“Hey girls, if you’re done making out can we go?” Gabby yelled from the cab of Cole’s SUV. 
The merchandise was already packed in the back.
“Cole’s letting me take his bike today. So we got Gabby covered front and back.”
I nodded and headed out for my bike, pushing on my sunglasses.
There was a long scrape on the side of my bike, ripping the sleek, black paint. “Dammit,” I 
mumbled, rubbing at the chipped paint.
“You’re lucky that was all. I just skimmed Weiss’ door.” Cooper climbed onto Cole’s bike. 
“You know they are gonna be out in full force looking for us. We need to be on guard today.” 
Cooper slipped on his helmet. We didn’t wear them often. But today, hiding our faces was a 
good plan.
“Let’s keep off of any main roads or ones he knows we use.” I grabbed my helmet and slid it 
on.
Cooper nodded and started the engine.
I swung my leg over my bike, which fitted me perfectly.
Just like Brycin.
The thought was already out before I could squash it. Plenty of times I had thought about her 
on the bike with me. Her back pressed between the handle bars, her legs wrapped around me, the 
engine vibrating and humming beneath us as I rode her so deep. 
My dick went hard at the thought, tightening with need.
“Eli?” Cooper’s voice broke into my fantasy.
I looked up at him.
“Let’s go man.” He hit the gas and took off down the road, following the SUV.
With a deep breath, I pushed all thoughts of her back down and followed them. She had been 
leaking through too often lately. It had to stop. My teeth ground together, my resentment of her 
building even higher. She did this to me. She was something I should hate anyway. Her kind. 
Her name. Everything. I would not let some woman, especially a Dae, turn me into such a pansy. 
She was dead. She had affected me enough in life; I could not let her reach out from whatever 
grave she was in as well.
At a stop light, my phone buzzed against my leg. Natasha’s face stared back up at me. 
15
“Yeah?” I answered.
“Hey baby. Where are you?” she purred through the phone
“We’re on our way. Be there in five.” I hung up.
She really was a good screw when I desired one, but I needed to end it. She would always 
want more, and I felt nothing for her.
We pulled up in our designated meeting spot near an abandoned warehouse in an area which I 
even considered dodgy. The moment I climbed off my bike and the helmet was off, Natasha had 
her arms wrapped around me, her lips devouring mine.
“I missed you last night,” she whispered in my ear.
I pulled back. “Uh, yeah, something came up.”
Her hand moved down my chest, she looked quickly over her shoulder. The group was not 
looking in our direction. Her hand crept lower.
“Did you miss me?” Her fingers slide down my pants.
“Natasha, not now.” I tried to step back, but her fingers wrapped hungrily around my cock. It 
reacted instantly. Memories of the fantasy with Brycin, I played out in my head earlier, flooded 
back.
Having her in my head, and not the girl standing in front of me, sent anger through my limbs. 
I grabbed Natasha shoulders and pushed her back. “I said not now.”
My dick was not pleased with me. Even though it never seemed to be fulfilled with Natasha, 
she was at least a release.
She bit her lip. Pain flashed quickly through her expression before she forced her mouth into a 
smile and winked. “Sure. Later.”
“Dragen.” Bobby, the leader of the Apocalypse Riders, sauntered over to me. “Haven’t seen 
you in a while. Good of you to come.”
I shook his hand. “Been busy.”
“I am looking forward to this partnership. Hope we’ll have more future runs with you guys. 
Take over some of the leg work.”
Since Lorcan had left, taking more than half of our group, we couldn’t do as much. 
Apocalypse was a new club and wanted to start making their mark. We needed men; they needed 
our status. It was a mutual collaboration.
Natasha’s hand again filtered across my ass. “I’m sure our partnership will be very 
gratifying.”
Bobby pressed his lips together at his daughter’s not-so-subtle insinuation. My reputation with 
women was no secret around the biker community. He knew he couldn’t stop her from seeing 
me, but as a father, he hated it. He and I both knew his little girl was gonna get hurt.
“All right, let’s get going. The drop off is an hour away.” I clasped by hands together. 
“Bobby, I’d like you and two of your men to ride in front with Cooper and two other to ride in 
back with me. Gabby will be in the middle.”
Bobby nodded. “Sounds good.” He went back to his men getting them organized.
“I’ll ride with you.” Natasha turned to face me, her arms wrapping around my middle. No 
16
matter how long it had been or how many times Natasha had touched me, my first reaction was 
always to push her away. I wondered why. We were both getting what we wanted out of this. But 
it pissed me off somewhere inside me I felt like I was betraying her. We had never claimed 
“rights” on each other. Hell, before I fucked Brycin, she had been playing around with an 
Incubus asshole. I was free to do who and whatever the hell I wanted.
“You’re frowning again.” Natasha stood on her tip toes and kissed me. I didn’t fight it. Nor 
did I fight her riding with me. I didn’t have it in me to fight. If I wasn’t angry, I was numb. 
Those seemed to be the only two emotions I felt anymore.
As we rode out, Natasha’s need to capture me through sex was relentless. It was the only way 
she thought I would fall for her. If she was good in bed, I wouldn’t be able to stay away from 
her. Girls like her didn’t understand that sex was just sex to us. We could always find it 
somewhere else. It was the girl who made us want to come back, not the pussy. 
Natasha was nice enough but boring as hell. She wanted to please me too much to ever risk 
challenging me. There was nothing to talk about. Not that I felt like talking to anyone lately. The 
only thing which got her huffy with me was my lack of commitment to her. She would get all 
pouty and irritating. I would just leave and in a day she would be calling, begging me back into 
her bed. Brycin would have been furious at the way I was treating her or the fact I was taking 
advantage of Natasha’s insecurity. She would kick my ass across the state and back.
I grinned at the image of Brycin all huffed up, pushing at my chest, as she laid into me. Her 
two different eyes would glow bright with anger. The vision was so crisp and clear I almost 
imagined I could smell her. The deep rich campfire scent, mixed with earth and cinnamon. 
A hand pushed at the button of my jeans, bringing me back to reality. My cock was starting to 
get restless. The beast in me needed to let off steam. But I pushed her hand away. I had a job to 
finish. I was already in the dog house with my family. I needed to complete this job without 
incident . . . then my dick could take over.
My patience and my mood were hitting violent territory by the time we got to the site. The 
beast had taken over so much it was hard working past the basic needs of sex and food. 
Everything in me was taut and stressed as I tried to keep my mind on the transaction. Usually 
when those basic things were ignored, I was easy to enrage. Okay, I had been easy to rile since 
the day I had lost her.
I looked at my phone. Cole had put in it the combination to the shed where we were dropping 
off the merchandise. I went and unlocked it, as everyone else started unloading.  
It was in that instant a vibration crippled my body, dropping me like a brick to the ground. 
Fire ignited in my veins, zipping the blood through my body so fast it hurt.
“Eli?” I heard Natasha come to my side.
I groaned as the ache turned up a notch, my breath halted in my lungs.
“What the hell is wrong with him?” Gabby dropped down on my other side.
“I don’t know.” Natasha fluttered over me nervously.
The pain eased. I gulped in a breath of air.
My heart pounded in my chest. No way—it couldn’t be. But there was no denying it. The 
17
feeling of her had been so engrained in me, there was no way I could ever forget it. It was like 
everything around me had returned to color. 
She was alive.
Pushing past the two obstacles in my way, I got to my feet. Voices were talking to me, but I 
didn’t hear anything but the pounding of my blood in her, calling to me.
Logic fled and desperation to go to her was my only instinct. I went for the first thing which 
would take me to her. I was in the SUV pulling out of there before anyone could react.
Like it always had, the closer I got the more the feeling of her pumped through me. I followed 
the blood link taking me up into the mountains, where the road ended. I was out of the car 
running. Soon I could smell her . . . and others. 
Jared!
My world stopped when I spotted her through the trees. She still wore the same outfit I had 
last seen her in, down to the dirt-stained tank top, the one we had relentlessly fucked each other 
on.
Anger hit me. She still smelled like me, like sex. It was as if no time passed for her at all.
Because it hadn’t.
She hadn’t died. She had left me . . . and had gone to the Otherworld. 
She stood there looking down at the cityscape of Seattle below. Next to her stood Jared, 
Kennedy, and another form. I took a deep breath in. 
Fuck. Lily.
Brycin had gone to help her friends escape. The most idiotic, stupid, reckless thing to do. She 
had foolishly thought she could face the Queen? The fact she was back with some of them 
proved she could do it, which pissed me off. She had been an idiot, but she hadn’t needed me. 
She never has, another voice said. My chest trembled with ire. She stood there, dirty and bruised, 
looking gorgeous, and not realizing, and probably even caring, what had happened to me in her 
absence. 
The beast in me roared and wanted nothing more than to take her right there—claiming what 
was mine as I plunged into her over and over. I locked down my muscles, but I prickled with the 
need for her. There was another part of me which loathed her very existence, I resented the effect 
she had on me, and what I had done and been like the last three years—because of her. I had felt 
guilt over West and Jared, but she had been the main reason I had lost respect with my clan and 
almost lost my place. I had been a wreck, barely hanging on to my sanity so I could survive. 
And there she stood. Like nothing happened.
Resentment filled my chest, stirring me to move from my spot.
I could snap her neck and it would all be over—for good.
“What the hell?” Jared exclaimed, looking down on the city. He had been born and raised on 
Earth and never experienced the time difference between the worlds. His hand went up touching 
the lower back of the tiny framed girl, Kennedy.
Interesting. 
Kennedy shook her head. “I-I don’t understand. This can’t be possible.” 
18
Seriously, they had been locked away in the land of Fairies, and they were gawking at the 
newly built city?
I gripped my hands into fists, trying to push down the storm of emotions whirling in me. 
“Clearly it is possible.” 
They all jumped, whipping around. Ember went down in a defensive stance, ready to fight. 
Then her head cocked to the side, her eyes widening with awareness as she looked around 
wildly. She felt me now.
I stepped out of the shadows. 
She gasped, her eyes running over me, taking me in. Her cheeks flushed, unconsciously 
licking her bottom lip as she looked away from me. Her breath shortened. I affected her. Good. 
“Eli!” Jared bounded over to me. A goofy, elated grin appeared on his face. His arms wrapped 
around me and I stiffened. It was automatic. To see the kid safe was all I wanted, but now he 
stood in front of me, I found it hard to show him. All emotion except anger had been turned off 
for so long I didn’t know how to respond to his hug. 
“Good to see you, J.” I gave him a pat and pulled back.
Ember’s eyes were on me, watching my every move. Skeptical. My eyes boldly met hers. 
Whatever she saw caused her muscles to tense up and take a small step back. She was wary of 
me. I knew she could also sense something was off about me. The beast was now more of who I 
was than the man. 
My gaze drifted over the group, landing on Lily. Muscles underneath my shirt tightened.
“Lily.” I addressed her coolly. She was not someone I had expected or ever wanted to see 
again.
“Elighan.” Her voiced wasn’t as guarded as mine. Emotion trickled through, hinting at her 
hate.
Ember’s eyebrows merged further down her forehead looking between us. “You guys know 
each other?”
Unfortunately, we did.
I smirked, “We go way back, don’t we?”
Memories of the last time I had seen Lily flashed through my head. My jaw crunched 
together, blocking them.
“That we do.” Lily pushed back her shoulders, reminding me of Ember. She defied her fear 
with rebellious disregard. 
Brycin shook her head. “Of course you do.” Resentment filled her tone and eyes. She 
understood it was one more thing that had been kept from her. Another secret. Her eyes flashed 
bright as they landed on me. “Why would you lie to me? Why would you and Lorcan say you 
killed my mother when you didn’t? Why would you do that?”
There was so much she should never learn about me.
Lily’s eyes penetrated into mine with accusing hatred, which only infuriated me more. Lily 
was no innocent here. Stepping closer, my fists balled at my sides. “I never actually said I did. 
You said I did. But if you really want the truth . . .”
19
“Ember, this is not the time or place for this,” Lily cut me off. Her vicious stare didn’t move 
from my face.
Ah. None of us were being truthful then. She wanted to keep our past a secret from Ember as 
much as I did.
“How . . . how is this possible?” Kennedy still stood staring at the city below, seemingly 
oblivious to the friction around her. But, I didn’t buy it. Granted she seemed to be genuinely 
confused about how a city had become fully rebuilt in what, to her, felt like a few weeks. But, it 
wasn’t the complete reason. She was too sensitive, her abilities too strong. She was trying to 
defuse the tension, breaking up our conversation. 
That was fine with me.
“A lot of things can get done in time,” I said.
“In time? I’ve only been gone for a couple of weeks.” She looked back at me, baffled.
Oh, this little tidbit was gonna be fun to share. None of them had a clue how much time had 
really passed and what had happened in their absence. “Maybe in the Otherworld, but remember 
time is not the same there as it is here on Earth.”
Kennedy took another glace below. “So, what are you saying? How long have I been gone?”
“I’m saying you have been gone for more than a few weeks.” I was enjoying this a little too 
much—the beast relishing the cruel game. I wanted them to feel the harsh reality of time being 
taken from them. I pointed my gaze at Jared and Kennedy. “It has been about four years now.” 
Then I turned to Ember. I wanted her to feel my anger the most—what I had been through while 
she was there. “You have been gone almost three years.”
“What?” All reacted except Lily. She understood. She had grown up moving between worlds. 
Another part of Brycin’s disappearance hit me. Why had I never thought of it before? Of 
course he would have been a part of this. Torin. This whole time she had probably been with 
him. He was who she probably had run to after being with me. There was no other way she could 
have gotten there on her own. He would help her. He’d do anything for her. Their connection to 
each other was another dagger in my side.
“A lot has taken place while you guys were away.” I leaned up against a tree, looking directly 
at Brycin. I couldn’t seem to keep my eyes off of her. Everything about her enticed me and 
pulled me in. Everyone else seemed to almost disappear when I was near her. She looked up; a 
muddle of emotions reflected in her beautiful eyes. How could one person affect me so much? 
Someone I should hate. There was no logic, just emotion. I had come to resent her for making 
me so weak. For needing someone so much, especially when we were doomed from the start. 
Fucking her or killing her were my two strongest desires. Maybe it would give me peace to kill 
the very thing which tortured me. But this time, her death would be by my hand.
Rage trembled in me. 
“I couldn’t feel you. I couldn't sense you at all. So I figured you were either dead or had done 
something exceedingly stupid. Seems it was the latter. But I am not the only one you should be 
worried about, Ember. Since your disappearance, you are number one on the Unseelie King’s 
most wanted list.” 
20
That spiteful part of me was rewarded. Brycin’s eyes widened as she took in the information. 
Fear and defiance crossed her face.
In that instant I wanted to kiss her.
I was split in battle: one instinct wanted to destroy my weakness; the other wanted to wrap my 
arms around her and protect her from the world and the things that would hurt her.
How long before that thing was me?
21
DARKNESS OF LIGHT BONUS SCENE
Chapter 5 from Eli Dragen’s POV
By Stacey Marie Brown
“Have a seat Mr. Dragen.” The officer motioned to the chair. There was a slight irritation to 
his tone. Officer Paul had dealt with me on numerous occasions.
With a resigned sigh I plopped down. Paul whipped out the handcuffs and locked my wrist to 
the chair, which only made me smirk. I was amused at the flimsy piece of metal they thought 
could hold me down. 
“I will be back.” He tugged on the metal making sure it was secure.
“Yeah. I think I know the dance by now.” 
Officer Paul gave me a bemused huff and turned, leaving me in the small confines of the 
waiting room. It reeked of human smells, bad coffee, and the hint of cleaning products. The scent 
of the police station was something I was used to. I should be. I had already been here twice this 
week. For the month, I was hitting about eight visits, so far. Sadly that was not a record for me. 
It was frustrating. I could easily out run the sheriff. Actually, I could out do him in anything, 
but Cole was adamant about us not using our abilities in public. Standing out or bringing any 
more attention to us was something he embedded daily into our brains. Except I was never one to 
listen. 
I had difficulty with staying out of trouble. My entire personality stirred up people and 
trouble. Only Cooper was close to my number of arrests and that was because he was usually 
with me when I was causing a disturbance. West got in his fair share, but that fucker had the 
knack to charm a nun out of her britches. His arrests ended with a slap on the wrist and a verbal 
warning most of the time. Lorcan was too sneaky to get caught. If I cared, I could have probably 
gotten away, too. I just didn’t. It was sick, but I kinda enjoyed pissing Sheriff Weiss off. 
Especially because he could never find anything to really hold me on. I wasn’t stupid.
Sliding down further to get comfortable, the hard plastic chair creaked as I shifted in my seat. 
These seats were too fucking tiny for me. I pulled a book out of my back pocket. The cops liked 
to leave me sitting for a long time, and I had learned early on to bring something to read when I 
went out. 
Most of my arrests were connected with Mike’s Bar and some asshole thinking he didn’t have 
to pay up what he lost a game of pool. My so-called age had some thinking they didn’t have to 
play by the rules with me. They didn’t like some “young punk kid” taking their money. All of us 
in my club appeared young to the human world. It hadn’t taken long for us to earn respect of 
most of the bike gangs around. But there was always one or two who thought he could take us. It 
never got old showing the pricks how wrong they were. 
22
Tonight’s arrest was one of those times. The guy was in intensive care, and I was handcuffed 
to a chair in the police station. I already knew there would be no charges made against me. That 
was not how the biker world worked. Our common enemy was the cops. We dealt with each 
other on our terms.
In less than an hour they’d release me. I just had to be patient and wait it out.
I flipped to the dog-eared page and started reading. Even as I let my mind escape into my 
book, my body was aware of every single thing in the room: every person, every noise, every 
smell. My instincts were always on, ready to act. Nothing in here was a threat . . . not to me.
Then that all changed. 
I smelled her before she entered. An assault of smoldering fire, cinnamon, and the soft scent 
of earth went up my nose, intoxicating my brain. It was like rich soil and olives being baked in 
the sun—what you'd imagine Italy or Greece to smell like. My head spun as I took another 
breath. It felt like a tsunami of tequila was poured into my head and chest. Tequila was known as 
the fight or fuck drink. I wanted to do both.
My gaze lifted, peering under my hood, seeing what Otherworld threat had just walked in.
Fae. Damn.
Even if this girl wasn’t Fae, she was danger from head to toe. My dick responded 
immediately, going rock hard. Her back was to me as she put her money into the coffee machine, 
her firm ass taunting me. My eyes locked onto her, running over every inch of her body. Her 
long black hair hung to her waist and was striped with flaming red streaks. She was tall and a 
little more athletic then I normally liked. But her body seemed to be demanding for me to put my 
hands on it and to explore every inch. 
Fuck.
Shaking my head, I looked away trying to break the spell the girl had on me. The endorphins 
she was putting off struck every nerve in my body. I wanted her bad. This never happened to me 
before. At least not this potent. I pulled down my hoodie further, blocking the bulge that was 
building up in my pants.
During our time on Earth, we had run into lots of Fae. Most were Dark. We tended to leave 
each other alone and go our own way, but I could feel this one was different. I couldn’t get a 
sense of Light or Dark from her. That was not a good thing. There was only one kind of Fae that 
I knew who were both, and none of those were alive anymore. There were not any Fae around 
this area we didn’t already know about. Was she just passing through?
I edged deeper back into my hood, bringing up my book to cover my face. To outsiders my 
body appeared relaxed and calm. I was anything but. My muscles constricted, ready to strike. 
She glanced over her shoulder towards me. Yeah, she was aware of me, too. When she turned, 
her eyes drifting over to me. The air in my lungs halted. 
Holy shit. She had two different colored eyes.
It took everything I had not to react. I clamped down tighter on my book, feeling my claws 
pricking at the surface. There was no way . . . no fucking way.
23
Was this girl a Dae? She had the traits—the two-toned hair and eyes. If so, she was both Light 
and Dark. 
She seemed naively unaware of her surroundings. It was almost like she was clueless to the 
danger constantly after her kind. There was no way a Dae would just be out walking around, free 
or unguarded. But I could smell no protection spell on her. Didn’t she know what she was? 
No. I had to be wrong. It was well known, even to us stuck on earth, there were no more Daes 
alive. All had been found and killed. 
Every. One.
The girl grabbed her coffee and a magazine and then sat in a row of chairs perpendicular from 
me. Her gaze quickly found its way back to me. She was trying to be sly, looking like she was 
reading her magazine, but I could feel her eyes burning into me.
Deep-seated hate and anger burned up my esophagus like acid. The desire to leap over and rip 
her into shreds consumed me. The beast inside was telling me I was not wrong. This thing was a 
Dae. My beast part growled, licking its lips to taste her blood. What her kind stood for was 
everything I despised. Every time she looked over at me, my instinct was to attack her. The killer 
in me was locking on its prey.  
I shifted in my seat to break the link between the beast and its target. The girl jumped up 
defensively, her coffee splashing over the rim of the cup onto the floor.
So the Dae wasn’t as dense as I thought. She could sense the threat. But she wasn’t that bright 
either. If she was truly wise she would be running for her life.
She mumbled something to the onlookers and kneeled down to clean up the spill on the floor. 
Her skin was like ivory, and I could see the slight embarrassed blush her cheeks. A few freckles 
were also sprinkled over her nose. The flash of me handcuffing her, bending her over an officer’s 
desk, my cock slamming deep into her, raced into my head. My dick twitched in longing. I 
hastily shut that fantasy down.
Fury at my own traitorous thoughts heated my body. It itched to act and to get out of this 
room before I did two violent acts to this girl. Only one of those I would let myself do.
She sat back down, readjusting herself with the magazine in one hand and what was left of her 
coffee in the other. It took only a few seconds before she was sneaking glances at me again.
Getting women to notice me was never my problem. If anything it sometimes became a 
nuisance. But I liked to fuck, and they liked to fuck me. This one watched me with the same 
female interest, but there was also something more in her attentive eyes. There was a 
defensiveness and irritation, but what got me was the curiosity. It was like she knew I was 
somehow different but didn’t understand why. Could she not know about Fae? Could she be that 
ignorant?
“Look up,” I heard her mumble to herself. No one else would have ever heard her, but I 
wasn’t like everyone else. 
I wanted to be disgusted by her voice, by her demand. It only made me want to do what she 
asked. 
24
Hell fuckin’ no. My head automatically shook slightly in response. I could feel the heat of 
mortification flood her body, flushing her cheeks. Then it swiftly changed to anger and gradually 
hurt. 
Her emotions were blatant and open, like a human. She couldn’t possibly have grown up in 
the Fae world. Hiding what you felt was something you learned from birth. You gave nothing 
away. Emotions were a weakness, and we would use them against you. One thing Fae knew how 
to do was hide secrets and feelings. 
This girl was a walking diary.
Officer Paul strode into the room and headed for me. Relief showered down on me. I needed 
to get away from this girl before I did anything I’d regret. 
“Okay, you’re free to go, Mr. Dragen. You know the drill. Sign the forms and you can leave.” 
Paul unlatched the cuff around my wrist. 
I saw the girl’s eyes widen as she watched me get un-cuffed. Her fear spiked, the sound of her 
pulse thumped in my ears. She had no idea of true terror: the fact my teeth wanted to tear into her 
flesh to take revenge for what her kind did.
I stood, keeping my head deep underneath my hood. I was enjoying her fear and playing with 
her. The girl’s gaze moved up my body, and her hands balled tightly in her lap. I almost 
stumbled as her fear shifted into another emotion. Endorphins filled the room and pulsated with 
desire and need. My beast part responded, but not in the way I thought. It wanted her back. I 
usually didn’t care when a woman noticed my arousal. She was different. She was a Dae. She 
should only disgust me. I would never let this abomination know she got me so hard it hurt to 
walk or even breathe.
Never.
As I walked by her, I tilted my head just enough so she could see my mouth. This Dae would 
know fear.
I smiled.
I knew that with a certain smile, I could have a woman begging me to fuck her; with another 
kind of smile I could make most people back off and stay clear of me. But with this smile I could 
make the most hard-ass prick pee themselves in fear. Without knowing truly why, they could 
sense their life was about to end.
This is what I wanted this girl to know. If I ever saw her again outside of these four walls, she 
was dead.
By the way she froze when I walked by, my message had been conveyed.
Good. 
Just the way I like it.
25
FIRE IN THE DARKNESS BONUS SCENE
Chapter 2 from Eli Dragen’s POV
By Stacey Marie Brown
Fuck.
That was my only thought when I saw the Dark Fae follow her into the shipyard. My legs had 
never moved so fast. My body wanted to change—the Dark Dweller in me screaming to get out 
and protect what was mine. No, not yet. 
Cole and Cooper were going up through the rafters. Literally to get a drop on them. I was the 
distraction. Phookas were not dumb, but they were greedy and quick to act. I would have to use 
that to my advantage. 
I slipped up to the cargo door, peering in. Even in human form, both men resembled a 
mountain goat. Phookas could change into several shapes: a dog, rabbit, and sometimes a small 
horse. But they usually had a dominant form. It wasn’t hard to figure out which one was theirs. 
“Move it.” The taller, bigger one behind Ember pressed a gun firmly against her head. Her 
face was strong and definite. This girl was one of the most stubborn pains in the ass I’d ever met. 
My lip tugged up in a grin. Even defeated Brycin would not go down willingly. 
The metal of the gun reflected the little light being let in from the top windows as he jabbed it 
again into the back of her head. A growl started to vibrate in my chest. I squeezed my eyes shut. 
Damn that fuckin' woman. She was gonna make me do something really stupid just because I 
couldn’t keep my shit together. With a deep breath I stepped into the doorway. It took everything 
I had to not lose it right there and tear those two Fae into pieces. I had not spent this long keeping 
her alive for her to be snatched away now. 
Seeing her again, this close up, was my own personal hell. Fuck was still the only word I 
thought, but it held a much different meaning. I had watched her for over four weeks, keeping 
most of the Fae that hunted her away, but I never got too close. If I did she would take off. 
Through our blood bond she could feel when I got near. 
The second, smaller Phooka asshole pulled out iron cuffs from his pocket and was about to 
put them around her wrists. 
“I don’t think you want to do that.” I leaned casually on the door jamb. I could take these two 
down in a matter of seconds. The only thing that stopped me was the gun. The bullets were Fae 
made, coated in iron. She would die. Suppressing another growl, I crossed my arms over my 
chest.
“And my night only continues to get better and better,” I heard her say as she sighed with 
annoyance. Here I was trying to save her ass so you’d think she’d be a little more grateful. But 
no, not Brycin. 
I scoffed. “Is this how you treat your savior? Your liberator, your rescuer, the redeemer?”
26
“Oh, hell. Are you and your ego done preening?” she sassed back. I loved provoking her. She 
gets all puffed up. But I was a sick motherfucker—I liked getting her all riled up. Actually, I 
enjoyed it even more when she riled me. Those were the times I wanted to put my cock deep into 
her and never let it see the light of day again. 
“Knight-in-shining armor then?” I offered up.
“Please. Goat-boy here is more likely going to be my knight-in-shining armor than you.” She 
pointed to the guy holding the handcuffs. She was dirty, her hair ratty and limp. She had cuts and 
bruises everywhere visible and dried blood around the edges of the holes in her clothes. She 
looked like hell. And all I wanted to do was lay her on that concrete and screw her till we were 
both scraped up, bruised, and bleeding.
I shut away the images. Those were only gonna get me to act rashly. I had to concentrate.
“Ouch,” I responded. I kept my focus on her, but I could see Cole and Cooper moving above 
the two Phookas’ heads. “Now you're just trying to be mean.”
“You haven’t seen me even get close to being nasty.” She crossed her arms. This was foreplay 
for me. 
“Threat or promise?”
“That is a pro—.”
“What the shit is going on?” The man behind her finally spoke. Ember jumped, looking like 
she almost forgot he was there. The ugly asshole with the gun was getting angry and edgy. “Who 
the hell are you?”
“Someone your mommy told you not to mess with.” I was looking forward to this. Most Dark 
Fae have gotten used to us being gone from the Otherworld. They were getting lazy, sloppy, and 
arrogant. But our name still caused so much fear it got me giddy. I wanted him to fully see me. 
Know who he was dealing with. I stepped out from the shadows. A small gasp came from 
Ember. She gulped. I could hear her heartbeat from where I stood. The blood in her veins rushed 
frantically around. Good to know I could still affect her.
 “This is our take. Get lost.” The Phooka was trying to play the tough guy. I could smell fear 
start to rise from his pores. This was too much fun.
“I don’t think so. You have something belonging to me, and I’d like it back now.” 
Ember stiffened at my words, her face going hard. Anger flared through her. It was all 
directed at me. I knew Lorcan had gotten to her—had told her that I was actually using her so I 
could turn around and trade her to the Unseelie King. There wasn’t anything about that statement 
that wasn’t true. I had been. My family came first . . . that’s what I was telling myself anyway.
 Somewhere along the way Brycin got under my skin. To be honest, it was way before I gave 
her my blood. What a stupid fuckin’ move that was on my part. Yeah, she affected me, but I 
could have walked away. Now I was finding that difficult. My blood flowed through her, calling 
to me. I had my fair share of seducing and being seduced by Sirens, Succubi, Demons, Tree and 
Water Fairies, and even a few humans. All were very memorable times. But nothing compared to 
the pull I felt with this one. It was like she wrapped my dick in a spell and, with no problem, 
27
could lead me anywhere. I craved her. I felt listless and off when she was gone. This only pissed 
me off. Made me resent her. 
I didn’t need anyone.
 “Sorry, we found her first. She’s worth a big reward, and we're gonna be the ones to cash in.” 
The Fae behind her pointed the gun at me. Iron didn’t affect me, but Fae-made bullets did. Not 
that I would let him know that.
“You really think that’s going to stop me?” I nodded toward the gun. Even if they shot me, 
nothing would stop me from getting to her. 
“It would hurt like hell and slow you down enough.” 
 “No more than a pinprick.” I smirked.
Okay, we’re in position, Cole said through our link. 
I kept my eyes zeroed in on the two Dark Fae. If either even adjusted a hair, I would know 
about it. I saw Ember’s gaze go briefly up to the rafters then quickly drop back down acting like 
she didn’t see a thing. Good girl. 
I then let my body shift. My clothes ripped from my body. I enjoyed this, watching the true 
fear grow in people’s faces when they realized what I really was. I had a few piss their pants. 
Always enjoyable. 
“Holy shit! You're a Dark Dweller,” the main Phooka exclaimed, wiggling the gun in my 
direction. “The Queen led us to believe you were all dead.”
“Sorry to disappoint,” It was getting harder for me to talk as my body continued to change. 
My spine arched up, the daggers popping out of my skin. The spikes were poison-tipped. One 
touch and you’d be praying for death. 
The Phookas were getting panicky. Not a good thing with them. I knew my eyes must have 
flashed red because the Phooka with the gun started to shake. The gun went off, the bullet hit 
several inches from my feet. Now they’re just pissin’ me off. 
Cole and Cooper jumped, changing form mid-drop. Right as they landed on the men, Ember 
dropped to her knees getting out of the line of fire and out of the Dark Fae’s grip. She crawled 
away from the fighting men. She looked up at the door and took off for it. She was going to try 
and get away from them . . . and from me. 
I wasn’t the only one who noticed her escape. The Phooka with the gun pointed it at her 
retreating frame; his finger squeezed the trigger. Rage burned through me. I growled and tore 
across the room. I hit him just before he shot, the bullet going into the wall beside her. I wanted 
this asshole dead. Bones crunched as I knocked into him. The Phookas dropped their human 
form. Growing their own lethal spiky horns. Their goat forms were large and tough. We were 
larger, tougher, faster, and much more deadly. 
Go get her. We got this, Cole said in my head. They didn’t need me. They barely needed both 
of them. This was child’s play for us. Still I craved to kill them. It was painful to turn away, but I 
had to get Brycin before she got too far.
I transformed back into my human form. In either form I could feel her. I knew exactly where 
she was.
28
At a full run I dove through the window. The shards of glass tore into my bare ass—stinging 
like hell. Glass rained down on us. I used my body as a shield as I landed firmly on her. She 
immediately started thrashing and grinding against me trying to get free. My dick was suddenly 
awake and wanting. 
Ciach ort! 
“Stop fighting me.” She needed to stop right now, before I ripped those tattered jeans off her 
and made her really thrash.
She stopped. Her stunning, two different colored eyes fastened on mine. I didn’t care that she 
could feel me stiff against her. It made her heart flutter faster. It only made me want to fuck her 
more.
She started wrestling against me again. “Let me go.”
“Try again.” 
“Get off of me.” 
“Nope, not that one either,” No. I was perfectly happy here. 
“Do you have her, Eli?” Cooper yelled from inside the building.
Damn. Guess fun time was over now. “Yeah.”
Cooper came out. I ignored the smirk and shake of his head. “Yep, I’d say you definitely do.”
 He had accused me many times since she had come into my life that she unhinged me. Half 
of our clan left with that same notion, following Lorcan. I couldn’t deny she both irritated and 
excited me. I wanted her, but I could not have her. I could never have her. I was the succeeding 
Alpha in our Clan. I would do my duty in the end. I always knew it would wind up like that. She 
was a Dae. Everything I despised. Because of what she was and my past, I should have killed her 
the moment I met her.
“Get. Off. Of. Me. Now!” she snarled at me, a flicker of desire under her words.
This only made things harder. Literally. I stood, pulling her up with me. Her gaze drifted 
down to my cock and widened and then quickly glanced to the side. I smirked. 
“You’re naked.”
“And you’re observant.” I needed to stop. I was Second in Command. I would not let this 
little Dae get the best of me. I had a job to do. I grabbed her arm and pulled her around the corner 
where our black Cadillac Escalade Hybrid sat. “Now get in.” 
“Are you kidding me?” She jerked against my grip. “You think I’m going to get into the car? 
I’m not going anywhere with you.”
“It is not a choice.” I didn’t have an option either. I had to trade her. She would become the 
Unseelie King’s problem and no longer mine.
29
Thank you to all my readers. Your opinion really matters to me and helps others decide if 
they want to purchase my book. If you enjoyed this book, please consider leaving an honest 
review on the site where you purchased it. Thank you.
Want to find out about my next release in the Darkness Series? Sign up on my website and 
keep updated on the latest news. www.staceymariebrown.com
30 <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
BLESSINGS OF AN IMMORTAL
BRETT P. S.
Copyright © 2014 Brett P. S.
Smashwords Edition
All rights reserved.
TABLE OF CONTENTS
CHAPTER I – A KNOCK AT THE DOOR
CHAPTER II – A DYING WISH
CHAPTER III – A SPITTING IMAGE
CHAPTER IV – A FINAL REQUEST
EPILOGUE – TIME CONQUERS ALL
CHAPTER I
A KNOCK AT THE DOOR
I lived a great many summers indeed.  For as long as I can recall, I have dwelt here, in this cozy little 
cottage atop a mighty timeless mountain.  Truly timeless.  I confess I do not know exactly how long my 
own life has lasted, but that I cannot remember the day of my birth.  The years of my mortality faded into 
the sands and the rocks, leaving not a trace for any to follow.  All I am is an old man who refuses to let 
death claim him.  An effortless gesture of defiance at this point.  
Gates of sandstone long since barred my stained glass windows.  To light the space in which I find myself 
sitting, I utilized a special potion that casts light from any sort of treated object.  I have been using stones, 
as they last the longest.  In fact, I only need to venture outside once a month to restock.  The 
mountainside leaves a lush bounty, plentiful enough to suit my needs, and for what it cannot, a village 
sets at the base of the mountain.  The people there are kind enough to lend me wares and food with no 
thought of reward.  I knew them for a while, though I cannot recall any faces.
I am finishing a meal when I hear a quite unexpected noise usher forth from the south.  As if brought on 
by swift winds, I hear a knock at my door.  Surprised, I lift up these old bones and make my way over. 
Honestly, the last time I had a visitor was ages ago, so I cannot entirely remember when that was exactly. 
It must be the wind, or some animal playing too close.  It could be a sick bird flew into my door.  No, that 
last part couldn’t be right.  The knock came thrice, so it must be three sick birds … or one quite insane.
The knock comes thrice more, a gentle tone surprisingly.  I lift up the latch and swing it open, anxiously 
awaiting a spectacular vision of six birds, but alas, it is a young man.  His hair is a dark hue of brown, his 
skin tanned from the unrelenting sun beating through the opening.  The air is quite hot.  It must be 
summer.  
“Excuse me,” he says in a timid voice.  “Are you the immortal of whom they spoke?”
“That depends, boy,” I reply.  “What have they told you?”
“Can I speak with you this day?”
“Of course, my boy.  Come inside.  Company is always welcome.”
After he enters, I close the door behind him and flip the latch shut for now.  The young man has a 
determined expression behind his eyes.  His clothes are tattered and worn from his travels.  He crossed 
some distance to speak with me, though I imagine I am not the final step in the journey he has planned.
“So you live here, cut off from the world?” he asks.
“It is the only way to keep my sanity, boy.  Friends, family … even you will pass soon, youthful as you 
are.”
“That is why I sought you out, sir,” he stammers.
“Please, call me Gregory.”
“Gregory, sir, I … I want to become an immortal … like yourself.”
Hesitantly, I answer, “Really now?”
“I want you to teach me the ways of an immortal,” he insists.
I have neither the knowledge of this young man’s history, nor his reasons for seeking me out, but there is 
one point I should make doubly clear before we further this conversation.
“What is your name, boy?” I ask him.
“Daniel,” he replies.
“Daniel, your wife and children will wither before your eyes.  Everyone you know will fade from this 
existence, and your great nation … along with its teachings and ways of life … will crumble to the 
ground in a mere century or two.”
“None of that matters.  As an immortal, I will live to do great things.  I will take all that goes with it if I 
can change the world for the better.”
“Determined aren’t we?”
“I do not intend to leave without an answer.”
There they are again.  His eyes … determined, though transient.  We will see.
“I will not train you based on a moment of passion.  Come back in five summers.  If you can wait that 
long, I will train you.”
“Thank you, sir.  I will be back in five summers.  Mark my word.”
He flips the latch and as he leaves, I call out to him, “Safe travels, my boy.”
CHAPTER II
A DYING WISH
The new day greets my eyes in a blinding coat of ebony shade.  I wake up from my bed, scarcely able to 
see anything as I shake off the tattered blankets made of fine fabrics.  Some patchwork will have to fit in 
there sometime soon, but that can wait.  I reach over to my bedside to grab the phials I created from the 
former afternoon and to feel the handful of rocks worn down from the previous coating.  It's an acid, so 
rocks are the best and most resilient choice.  Popping the stopper, I pour the solution over them, coating 
the stones in a fine light as the liquid potion reacts to their surface.  A few seconds, and the tones of light 
flood the cottage, allowing me to see as clear as if it were daylight.  
My body and mind lost their connection with the great shifting earth, but in here, I feel as if it is now 
morning.  Maybe something remains ... or is it that I want something to remain?  Truthfully, five summers 
is quite a long time to wait for the boy's return.  I doubt even I am that patient.  What was his name again? 
I believe it began with a 'D.'  Danielle? No, I'm certain it was a man.
Wholly to my surprise, I hear a knock at my door not seconds after thinking these thoughts.  Another 
visitor?  So soon?  The odds the knocking is actually a flock of birds grows significantly higher this time, 
though I suppose it would be rude not to answer otherwise.  I open to door and find my gaze fixated a bit 
lower than last time.  Instead of a young man, I see a young boy not more than twelve years old.  He 
looks up at me with wide eyes and speaks with a stutter.  
“M ... my father has ... f ... fallen ill,” he tells me.
Listen, “There is no reason to fear me, boy.  Say what you need to.”
“He ...” he continues with a pause. “He can't come to get it.”
“Get what?”
“I ... Im ... Immer ...”
Oh, I see now!
“Ah, so then your father is the man who spoke with me earlier?”
To which the boy answers, “Yes.”
“Right then.  So, he has fallen ill,” I say with a chuckle.  “I hardly think it's much to fret about.”
However, my words fall short of the boy's lack of interest.
“He ... told me to tell you ... he is not strong enough to come here.”
So, my suspicions held some merit, but, “Giving up already?”
The boy shakes his head and tells me, “He wants ... you to give it to me instead.”
Oh, I see.  Well, “If the old man has given up so easily, what reason should I have to trust you will not as 
well?”
“I ... I ... don't ...” he stutters as I stare him down.  It is true.  He doesn't know, but he cares for his father 
enough to make the trip up the mountain.  Let us see if his passion is timeless.
“You can wait for five summers,” I tell him.  “Come back then, and I will honor your father's request.”
He stumbles out the door and reassures me, “I will come back.”
However, there is, “One more thing, boy.”
“What?”
“I neglected to tell your father, so I'll tell you.  It will be easier seeking immortality if you have no heirs. 
It makes the transition easier, if you take my meaning.”
“For my father's wish, I will do as you say.” 
CHAPTER III
A SPITTING IMAGE
A morning and afternoon passes its way like a breeze through the stagnant air of my cottage as I fiddle 
with all sorts of contraptions.  I've cooked a nice bowl of soup from bits of bird I found outside.  It is 
rather exquisite, to be honest, though the flavor is lacking somewhat.  I should take a trip down to the 
village soon ... ah, but that won't be for at least three weeks.  Could I part with routine ... just this once?
As I sloppily slurp the last bit of liquid from my spoon, I hear another knock at the door!  Who in the 
blazes could this be?  The pounding shakes my delicate walls, rickety old things not meant for the youth. 
Fine!  I'll answer it this one last time, but not once again until at least five summers.
I swing open the hatch and shout, “What in the lord's green...?” and then I pause.
“You recognize me?” he asks.
“Of course, lad.  Come in.”
He sits down on a dirt-caked rug, waiting for me to follow suit.  The young man looks the same as before, 
but his eyes are not quite in accord.  Nevertheless, I meet his gaze at his level.  It takes a few moments for 
this old man to crouch firmly, but I'm not out of it yet.
“You weren't very sick then, were you?” I question him.
“I never was, sir,” he replies.
I see.  Well, “Then either you or your boy is a liar.”
Surprisingly, he answers, “I don't have a boy, sir.  Remember?”
“Not particularly.”
“You instructed me not to bring up any heirs.”
What kind of game is this?  Any fool with half a wit can see through this horridly absurd impersonation.
“Don't toy with me, Daniel!” I shout.  “I won't have it!”
“You speak of my father, sir.  I've waited five summers, as you asked.”
Detestable!  
“You waited an afternoon and wasted my time so far ... get out.”
“But sir ... master Gregory!”
“I will not be prey to trickery, boy!  Five summers was the deal, and five summers it shall stay.”
“I ... I waited.”
“You are a liar and a scoundrel!  Out with you!”
CHAPTER IV
A FINAL REQUEST
The boy has indeed learned his lesson.  I doubted at first that my words could change a man's heart, 
though truthfully, I heard little more than the whipping mountain wind for the past three days.  It's a calm 
silence broken occasionally by the rhythmic tone of mother earth.  It fades into the echoes of the 
mountain peak, and I hardly notice if I don't pay close attention.  
Supplies are running dry as of late.  The foul are nearly gone and what little morsels are left are beginning 
to succumb to rot.  Even my preservatives are no match for mother earth in the end.  Of course, eating 
rotten food won't kill me, but it won't taste pleasant either.  Running out of good stones too.
For some reason, the noise of shuffling catches my fancy, scraping along outside the cottage door. 
Rodents maybe?  Certainly not birds.  I'm slowly becoming sure of that by now.  The sound of wood 
knocking on wood comes next, like a stick or staff.  It hits once.  After a few minutes, it hits again.  I hear 
a large resounding thud, like a sack of potatoes plopped on the ground.
“Hello there?  Are you a sack of potatoes?”
A sack of potatoes wouldn't be able to come forth with an answer, but seeing as no answer made itself 
known, the odds shifted considerably in my favor.  I might have a grand soup tonight.
Casually, I open the door to see a winded old man leaning up against one of the outer walls.  Clutching 
his walking staff and huddled on the ground, he doesn't notice much of anything.  
“Can I help you?”
He slowly shifts his gaze upward, two eyes filled to the brim with tears.  For a moment, the old man does 
nothing but look, coarsely panting to restore his lungs.  After some minutes of silence, he utters a few 
choice words.
“It has been some time ... hasn't it ... master Gregory?”
“Excuse me?”
“I ...” he stutters, “I realize now.  You've no idea ... do you?”
“Apparently not.  What business have you with me?”
He stares even more strongly.
“I waited, Master Gregory.”
Who told him my name?  Was it that foolish boy?
“Am I to suffer these visitations for the rest of my days?”
“I waited years ...” he explains, “the whole of my life.  I'm not sure how many days I have left, Master 
Gregory.”
“It is your fate, sir.”
He grasps my robes with bony fingers, pleading, “It doesn't have to be.  Teach me the ways of being an 
immortal.  You can't possibly refuse me if I can't possibly wait.”
Each one more impatient than the last.  This is the final straw.
“I won't do it.”
“You ... you jest ...”
“If you heard of me from the traveler Daniel, let him know I rescind my offer.  I won't teach him ... and I 
certainly can't help you.”
“But ... but you promised!” he begs.  The tears roll effortlessly down his parched lips.
“I promised nothing,” I answer.  “Besides, it takes years to learn.  You simply don't have enough time 
left, I'm afraid.”
“I ... I forsook everything,” he tells me.  “I hold no possessions ... no wife ... no heirs ... nothing ...”
“Then your passage into the next life will be easier still.”
“I've wasted my life ... for all of this.”  His grip loosens and then the old man releases his clutch.  With 
what little strength he has left, he picks himself up by the staff and begins the long journey down the 
mountainside with a single step.  “I will be back.  I will be back with an army to cut you down.”
Those words ... I believe I've heard them before.  It matters little, though.  The great sun rises and falls, 
despite its immeasurable power, but time conquers even that.
EPILOGUE
TIME CONQUERS ALL
Weeks pass as I toil with my potions and machinations.  Days roll by one at a time so quickly I hardly 
notice, but I've been keeping track on a calendar.  It's an old piece of stone with markings I've etched for 
the days and years.  It has been nearly a month since I last spoke with the old man.  He hasn't returned, 
despite his feverish intent.
“It's time, I think.”
The last of my supplies succumbed to total rot and an unbearable stench permeates every layer of my 
cottage.  I take the time to gather my supplies.  I've an old satchel nearly worn to shreds, but it'll do. 
Enough to carry some goods.  I can trade for a better one with some of my potions.
My wares all wrapped up together, I creak open the door to let in some long deserved moonlight.  I'd 
rather it be day, but the wait won't be long.  Starlight riddles the sky.  However, as I gaze downward, 
toward the base of the mountainside, there are a great many flames of red and yellow darting across the 
landscape.  So small.  I can hardly make them out from here.  Some kind of festival?  
“What's this?”
Off down the mountain path a ways, there lies a pile of bones.  They look old, the meat cleanly picked 
from them and bleached from months of sunlight.  I'd call it an animal, but a human skull rests amongst 
the clutter.  The lot isn't more than a few paces off.  Strange...
“I can't believe I never noticed it before.” <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
EDEN’S LAST HERO
EDEN: BOOK #1: EPISODE 1
LEIGH BARKER
Copyright 2012 Leigh Barker 
Published by Leigh Barker at Smashwords
Smashwords Edition License Notes
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only and may not 
be re-sold or given away to other people.  If you would like to share 
this book with others, please purchase an additional copy for each 
recipient.  If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was 
not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to 
Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own 
copy.  Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.
ISBN: 9781005790080
INSTRUCTIONS: 
CAN OF WORMS — OPENING OF
The archangel Michael and the Holy Ghost sat on opposite sides of the 
polished wooden table and tried to remain civil, even though the desire 
to scream abuse hung over the huge table like a storm cloud at a 
picnic.
‘Sometimes I wish we hadn’t jumped right in and exiled Lucifer to 
the pit,’ the Ghost said, with more than a hint of accusation. ‘Then we 
wouldn’t be having this discussion.’
‘No,’ Michael said, ‘we would be having a much shorter discussion. 
In the cells, waiting to be executed.’
The Ghost nodded reluctantly. ‘True, I suppose.’ He sighed a rattly 
sigh.
Michael ran his hand over his chin and wondered what had 
possessed him to shave off his beard. He’d had it for years, and it 
was… well, comforting. He was the Supreme Commander of Eden’s 
Guardians, and a beard had a certain gravitas and gave the impression 
that he was steady and wise. Except when it got clogged with food, 
then less so, but that was an infrequent event these days. Particularly 
since the beard was now—
‘As I was saying,’ the Ghost said sharply, cutting across Michael’s 
meanderings. ‘If we hadn’t been so quick to incarcerate Lucifer, then 
we could have negotiated. You know that.’
Michael didn’t know that. He stood up slowly and walked to the 
window overlooking the gardens and watched Gabriel tending the 
roses and stopping to stretch his back. He watched his most effective 
killer snip the roses with gentle care. He felt old, his bones ached, and 
he was sure he was starting to lose his hair. That would be a disaster. 
He ran his hand through his shoulder-length grey hair and tutted 
quietly as strands drifted away in the shafts of golden sunlight. It 
wasn’t surprising that he was losing it, what with Lucifer trying to start 
a revolution. Then the bickering over what to do with him. And finally 
the screaming and shouting as the Guardians tossed him into the Pit of 
Endless Suffering. Ah, he should come to stay with my mother-in-law, 
Michael thought.
He turned and leaned back against the windowsill. True, he was no 
longer a young man, but he was still striking, standing six foot four 
and two-hundred and ten pounds. He used to be in better condition, but 
then he’d been a warrior, while now he was just a politician. He 
missed those days, when you knew who you were fighting and why.
‘Lucifer was a far greater threat than his son can ever be,’ he said, 
pushing himself off the sill and returning to the table.
The Ghost sniffed. ‘Perhaps, but Lucid almost had us… had you.’ 
He raised a hand. ‘I am not apportioning blame.’
Yes, he was.
‘But had it not been for the stupidity of his troops, his invasion 
would have been successful. He caught us—and I believe the term is—
with our pants down.’
Gabriel glared at the semi-transparent politician in the long, blue 
robe and tried not to swear. ‘We,’ he said slowly, ‘were caught… with 
our pants down, as you put it, because your agents failed to provide 
any useful intelligence to warn us that the invasion was imminent.’ 
Now he raised his hand. ‘Despite the fact that you had many, many 
agents on the Dark Continent. At great expense.’
‘Be that as it may,’ the Ghost said, waving his hand as if to shoo 
away the implied criticism. ‘We are where we are. And where we are 
is not where I would be if I was where I would like to be.’
Michael blinked slowly while he unravelled it. ‘Then you agree?’
The Ghost watched him for a moment, then nodded. ‘Yes. It is 
unprecedented, but these are perilous times.’ He stood up, rising 
through the tabletop. ‘I shall arrange for a hero to be brought back 
from the Other Place.’
Michael sighed. ‘It does not sit well with me,’ he said and closed 
his eyes tiredly. ‘But I can think of no other way to defeat Lucid.’
‘Our army… your army,’ the Ghost said, ‘has been at peace for so 
many millennia, it has lost its ability to think beyond sparring and 
gentlemanly jousts.’
It was another dig. But also painfully true.
‘We do not need to revisit this,’ Michael said, looking up and fixing 
the Ghost with hard, grey eyes. ‘That is why we must bring the hero 
back with his memory intact. He will teach us the underhanded, 
deceitful, devious, and dishonourable methods of the Other Place.’ He 
stood up. ‘Let’s get this done and put it behind us as soon as possible. 
It leaves a sour taste in my mouth.’
‘The Other Place was created for that very purpose. So that our 
young could live in a world where such traits are considered a virtue. 
And learn the error of that misconception.’
Michael nodded slowly. ‘Except that now we, who have lost the 
ability to be dishonourable, must call on just these traits to save Eden 
from Lucid’s revenge.’
‘I shall instruct the Tallyman to return a suitable hero,’ the Ghost 
said, ‘and we will sup with him using a very long spoon.’
ALL HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO
Dylan was dead, he just hadn’t realised it yet. Nor did he realise he 
was in Heaven, but wouldn’t have believed it had he known — there 
was no way they would have opened the pearly gates, that would have 
been too much of a cock-up even for Saint Peter, who let’s face it, is 
getting a bit, well, doddery — so he kept his eyes firmly shut and 
resisted the temptation to jump up and shout, ‘Ah, missed me!’ He 
heard muffled voices and strained to hear if it was the bad guys 
hanging around in case he recovered from being shot twice at close 
range.
He thought about the past few minutes and wondered how he could 
possibly have survived. He and his sister, Abbi, had been trying to 
open the window, but like most of the stuff in the shabby hotel, it was 
broken, and they’d been caught with nowhere to run when the two 
gunmen burst into the room and started blasting away. They couldn’t 
have missed, and from what bits he could remember, they hadn’t. 
Chalky White’s boys. He’d known he shouldn’t do it at the time, but it 
was just too tempting, all that loose cash.
He felt guilty about getting his sister into this mess, but it was such 
a rare feeling, it soon got bored with being all alone and wandered off.
He moved his fingers and felt sheets. Hey, he was under sheets, so 
he was home in bed and had dreamt it, yippee! But that flew like a 
cast-iron duck. So he must be in hospital, which seemed more likely, 
since these were clean, crisp sheets, and clean sheets of any crispness 
were something he hadn’t owned since he’d packed his bags and 
moved out of his mother’s house to make it on his own. Well, that had 
worked out just fine. A voice in his head whispered, ‘Morgue’, and he 
shut it up quickly.
He could still hear muffled voices, so opened his eyes as wide as a 
spy in a sandstorm and moved them very slowly in the direction of the 
sound. He couldn’t see much, his eyes being mostly shut, but he could 
see he was no longer in the cheap hotel room. There was white, lots of 
white. White is good. He risked taking a proper peek, but kept still, no 
point pushing his luck. Yes, he was in a hospital, he could tell that 
because he was in a bed, a white bed, a white bed that was as hard 
as… the same little voice helped him out, ‘A slab’. Cheers.
He moved his head and looked along the ward at the two rows of 
beds stretching off into the distance, like a railway line of white linen. 
And dead people, rows of dead people in white beds. No, hang on, 
they couldn’t be dead or they’d be in a… ‘Morgue,’ whispered the 
voice again.
He lifted his head a fraction, looked the other way, and saw the 
same rows of white beds against white walls stretching away to a 
convergence point in the distance. Packed like sardines, so it must be 
one of those hospitals for poor folk, but hey, it’s better than being 
dead.
So what about Abbi? He sat up slowly, but all he could see was 
sleeping bumps and no movement. Man, she could be anywhere, 
‘Probably dead,’ the voice said. He gritted his teeth and thought, ‘Shut 
up!’ then realised he’d said it out loud, and the voices had stopped. 
Rats.
He lay back down quickly, closed his eyes, kept still, and hoped 
they’d forget about him.
Like that was going to happen.
He heard the click-click of heels approaching and knew the jig was 
up, looked up and saw two huge nurses at the foot of the bed, their 
faces hidden behind surgical-type masks, but he could see their eyes, 
and that was enough. He threw off the sheet and bolted for the exit, 
wherever that was.
He couldn’t have caused more commotion if he’d streaked naked 
through Wimbledon Centre Court.
Suddenly, white-coated figures appeared from unseen rooms and 
curtained spaces provided for the sole purpose of hiding medics. 
Voices shouted, ‘Stop him!’ Which struck him as nuts, even as he 
skidded on polished linoleum. Why do they always shout that? Who 
are they asking? Who in his right mind is going to tackle a nutter in a 
white nightshirt pelting through a hospital full of dead people? But just 
in case, he dashed between the beds and jumped through an open 
window, which, considering he might have been on the tenth floor, 
was a bit of a rash thing to do. Luckily, it was the ground floor, but 
that wasn’t his fault.
One thing was clear from the moment he sprawled headfirst across 
the cobbles, he wasn’t in Kansas anymore, Toto.
He got up slowly and rubbed his grazed knees. There were people, 
and they were staring at him, but that was nothing new, people were 
always staring at him — usually just before they started throwing 
things and shouting for the police — but these people were not your 
everyday cheery Cockney folk, cor blimey no Mary, they were weird. 
Not weird with humps or anything like that, but they were wearing 
robes tied with rope, floppy hoods, and sandals, and he wondered if 
there was a Friar Tuck convention in town.
He reached behind and was relieved to find that the white gown 
hadn’t got one of those embarrassing gaps at the back.
The town was as weird as the Friar Tucks. The bit he could see 
across the narrow, cobbled street was a jumble of ill-matched wooden 
houses, crammed together so that their sagging pitched roofs touched 
and overlapped each other above the narrow alleys that tapered to 
nothing six feet above the cobbles. There was clearly a shortage of real 
estate space as the houses had been added to and extended vertically 
with no regard for order or the laws of gravity.
The Friar Tucks were backing off as if they were afraid of him, 
which was cool, except that nobody was ever afraid of him, so that 
meant they were afraid of someone or something behind him. He 
decided not to look around, so he wouldn’t have to see what was 
scaring them. Yeah, that’s a plan, ignore it and it goes away, stands to 
reason. He turned and looked. Well, so much for willpower.
It wasn’t the white-suited minotaur climbing through the window 
that had the people cowering in fear — that was just your everyday, 
run-of-the-mill man with the head of a bull. It was the man standing at 
the open window that had the townsfolk squeezing into any little nook 
or cranny — though they had to double up in the nooks, there being a 
shortage of crannies.
Dylan stared open-mouthed at the man, at his long white hair and 
translucent skin, his pink eyes with piercing red pupils, and wide-
spaced teeth showing between lips pulled back in what might have 
been a smile. He was too tall for this world and had adjusted by 
hunching his shoulders and leaning forward, like an albino vulture 
waiting for its prey to peg it so that it could tear the flesh off its still-
warm body. And presently, that body belonged to Dylan. The vulture 
spread his smile, and his teeth flashed like an advert for Hollywood 
White teeth bleach. He wagged a long, bony finger at Dylan.
The small crowd watching from the shadows of the houses knew 
this vulture as the man who caught the loonies who escaped from the 
asylum, a creature to stay well clear of. What they didn’t know was 
this was the Tallyman, Trinity’s truant officer, whose job it was to 
catch any students who wandered away from the Academy and return 
them to their studies, and their physical condition on return depended 
on whether or not they resisted — and strangely, they always did.
Dylan stared into those pink eyes and felt his will start to ebb, like 
the stuttering feeling when an escalator slips. With a tremendous 
effort, and because the minotaur was now out of the window, he tore 
his gaze away and did what any self-respecting, red-blooded male 
would do under similar circumstances. He ran away.
The minotaur gave chase and was surprisingly nimble for a chap 
with a bull’s head. This was a seriously ugly creature, with a squat, 
over-muscled body, hairy arms extending below his knees, and vicious 
horns curving up out of its huge head through a thick mane of black 
hair that flowed over bulging shoulders. But it was its face that was its 
real winning feature. It had a low forehead, showing an intellect that 
suited its job as guard dog on two legs, and an elongated snout that 
finished in a huge jaw lined with razor teeth, that only added to the 
canine bone-chomper image. This was what was chasing Dylan in a 
shuffling run along the cobbled streets of Medieval World. It couldn’t 
get any worse.
But of course it could.
As Dylan ran towards the end of the narrow street, two more of the 
creatures stepped out onto the cobblestones. This is bad, he thought, 
putting himself in the running for the understatement of the year 
award.
The two minotaurs smiled, or at least the flesh around their mouths 
peeled back to reveal pointed yellow teeth. One of them was wearing a 
nose-ring, and it crossed his mind that it might be a fashion statement. 
He didn’t know — and thankfully for his sanity, would never know — 
that the nose-ring wearer was a female. There is a long and colourful 
story behind her struggle to be accepted as one of the Catchers, but 
some creature’s habits are best not described in detail, sometimes it’s 
just better not to go there.
Dylan glanced over his shoulder and saw that the other monster was 
gaining on him. It was because of the sharp grit beneath his shoeless 
feet, he told himself. Ignoring the fact that he was a physical wreck 
whose idea of exercise was making six trips to the fridge to fetch beer 
instead of carrying the whole pack in one go. And here in Medieval 
Land, his physical condition seemed to have improved not a jot. 
Things were looking bleak for our recently dead hero.
As mister and missus minotaur opened their arms and began to edge 
forward, ready for the catch, a black cat strolled out of a narrow alley, 
walked into the middle of the street, and gave the monsters a long, old-
fashioned look. They shot bolt upright, as if goosed by Ol’ Flattop, and 
backed off. As the cat looked them up and down slowly, they turned 
and fled in terror.
‘Thanks, moggy,’ Dylan said and ran out of the street and into a big 
square dominated by a ramshackle market selling perfectly ordinary 
fruit and vegetables, that differed from the real thing only in their 
gnarled and misshapen form — and by a complete lack of copious 
amounts of decent plastic wrapping.
The market was teeming with men in flowing tunics, breeches and 
stockings. Dylan did a double take. Stockings? That’d go down well at 
the Old Blood ’n Sawdust on a Saturday night. But the women were 
cute, wearing smocks and ankle-length kirtles, emphasizing their 
innocence and purity, an image that appealed to him greatly, even 
pursued by the bone-chompers. They were staring at him with a 
mixture of shock and curiosity, and he was pleased to see that the 
curiosity came mostly from the girls, giggling and pointing at his 
knobbly knees. Maybe it wouldn’t be too bad here in Medieval World
—
The giggling stopped abruptly, and the crowds backed off, eager to 
put the stalls between themselves and whatever it was they were 
pointing at behind him. Here we go again, he thought, where’s that 
moggy?
He turned around to look for the cat and saw the angel. He knew his 
jaw had dropped, but the data link between his brain and his muscles 
was in overload. A real angel stood there, her long blonde hair rippling 
in the soft breeze and her bare breasts rising and falling gently with 
each breath. And she had wings, real wings, curving up above her 
shoulders and disappearing behind her back. He had never seen a more 
beautiful creature.
She smiled and beckoned him to come closer, something she didn’t 
have to do twice. He walked slowly towards her, his arms hanging 
limply at his sides and his eyes fixed on her breasts. She was stunning, 
but she was about to find out that he was a pretty good catch himself, a 
bit of a…
He fell over, or more accurately, he tripped over, and landed flat on 
his face in the dusty straw scattered across the cobbles to muffle the 
horses’ hooves and to soak up anything they might drop. And his face 
was right in whatever they might drop, and it smelt like…
‘Meow,’ said the cat sitting and watching him.
A shot of anger zipped into his stomach. ‘Damn you, moggy, now I 
look a right prat!’ And he surely did, and in front of the beautiful 
winged angel. But wait up, hold the phone, there are no such things as 
beautiful winged angels. Of course, there should also be no such thing 
as minotaurs, but Murphy’s Law states quite clearly that if it’s fragile, 
beautiful and has bare breasts, it does not and never will exist, whereas 
if it’s ugly, huge and likely to tear your head off, it’s a racing certainty 
that it’s real.
He looked up slowly, convinced the beautiful angel would have 
flown, dismissing him for a right wally, and there she was, gone. In 
her place stood the albino vulture smiling down at him, anticipating his 
eyeballs for a tasty snack.
With a painful wince, Dylan pulled himself up onto his scraped 
knees and looked past the pale horror to the minotaurs emerging 
sheepishly into the street — which is quite an achievement for bull-
people. He pointed urgently across the square and, as the albino 
turned, jumped to his feet and ran into the tangle of stalls, careful not 
to upset any of the wares — he’d seen those movies where the 
townsfolk come hunting the stranger, with flaming torches and a rope.
The albino let him run and looked around slowly to see if he had 
been observed by the Ghost’s watchers. He couldn’t see anyone, but 
that’s the nature of unseen watchers. He pointed to the sides of the 
square, and the minotaurs split up and shuffle-ran to the houses, while 
he walked slowly down the middle of the square, the crowd parting 
before him.
But Dylan had got clean away, skilfully evading his pursuers and 
taking refuge in a quiet courtyard at the side of a small, empty square 
where he could see anybody or anything approaching, if he hadn’t 
slammed the big gates, that is. Well, there you go, he thought, it’s not 
too bad a getaway. And he was right. He was in a cool, quiet 
courtyard, with fragrant flowers and stuff — and smooth walls that 
stretched up like white cliffs, right up to the rooftops fifty feet above, 
without a single door, window or handhold.
Outstanding.
What the rest of us knew some time ago slowly dawned on him, 
and he began to mutter, curse, and generally do nothing that resembled 
escape. He knew that if he opened the gates, there would stand the 
minotaurs, snarling, snorting and maybe pawing the dust, prior to 
goring him like an apprentice farmhand in a red shirt. He kicked the 
flowerpots, muttered, whimpered some more, and finally convinced 
himself that this was just his over-active imagination given wings by 
raw fear. He pulled the gates open a slit and looked out, chanting, 
‘Nobody there… nobody there…’
There was nobody there — except the three minotaurs standing 
quietly in the street, waiting for him to give up and come on out. The 
one considered by the Squad to be the cheeky little thing with the 
nose-ring snorted attractively and shuffled forward.
He was about to become el Matador (deceased) when he spotted his 
means of escape. A white stallion was leaning against a wall a little 
way across the square, and Dylan threw caution to a convenient wind 
and ran. Somebody had draped a feather car rug over the animal, and 
he supposed there was going to be a frost.
The horse watched him coming, snuffled its irritation, and stood up, 
ready for the human to do all that jabbing and pulling they seemed 
obsessed with, when it was perfectly obvious where they wanted him 
to go. If they would just let him get on with it, he was quite able to 
find his own way from here to wherever, without—
Dylan jumped onto the horse, and a feeling of elation rushed 
through him now that he had a means of escape that excluded running 
around on bare feet. The elation masked one very important point — 
he couldn’t ride.
But he needn’t have worried about being unsaddled onto the 
cobblestones. The horse took four strides, unfolded its car-rug that 
turned out to be huge wings, and soared into the pale sky, with Dylan 
screaming, hugging the pommel, and hanging on for dear life.
The horse, curious that there was no pulling, jabbing or kicking, 
glanced back to see what sort of horseman it was that left the reins 
dangling and made that dreadful screeching noise. He saw the chubby 
youth clinging to his saddle, decided that this was a human who 
needed ditching at the earliest possible moment, and set about doing 
just that. Usually the head down sudden stop did the trick, pitching the 
hijacker over its head and down to the street below. It had worked 
several times before, and he recalled the fat thief who had plummeted 
screaming into the city cesspit. Happy days. He tilted his wings and 
stopped, like a Harrier jump jet reversing thrust.
Dylan’s grip of death broke, and he shot forward, but fortunately, 
the ornate pommel saved him, by slamming into his groin. How lucky 
was that? He slid back into the saddle, undecided whether to clutch 
safety or comfort.
The horse took off, peeved that the young human was still there. 
Plan B it is, then. He looked around until he saw what he needed and 
swooped down and under the bridge with barely a foot clearance, a 
superb piece of flying in any circles, loops, or straight lines.
Dylan was not impressed and would have been mashed, had the 
sudden manoeuvre not caused him to slide out of the saddle to hang on 
like a circus trick-rider clinging to the side of the horse.
‘Hey, pack it in!’ he shouted, his voice bouncing back from the 
bridge walls.
The horse didn’t understand the plea, not speaking human, and was 
too busy anyway, trying to decide whether or not a loop-the-loop 
would do the trick, but he couldn’t get the flight calculations sorted out 
with all that screaming and shouting, so decided to hit that idea on the 
head, reached back, and tried to bite his rider. Primitive, true, but it 
still might have worked, sometimes the daftest things do, but the 
human flinched away at the last moment, as teeth snapped shut with a 
loud snick — and they really were truly excellent teeth, a testament to 
the oral cleansing properties of good carrots.
So that was Plan A, B and the long shot of nibbling the human’s leg 
all done. Okay, onto the next plan, except that he’d never needed a 
next plan. Think, think, what he needed was… was… help. Ah, 
exactly, help. Without further deliberation, he beat his powerful wings, 
banked, and turned back towards his point of departure.
‘No!’ Dylan screamed as he realised what was happening. He 
leaned forward, grabbed the flapping reins and pulled hard with his 
right hand, as he’d seen the cowboys do when the herd was about to 
stampede them to death.
The horse turned, then cursed itself for its reflex action, but 
obedience to the reins was too deep seated, too ingrained. He sighed a 
horse sigh and gave up, deciding that the sooner he got the human 
where he wanted to go, the sooner he could go back to his nap. And 
he’d been thinking the wall he was leaning on was a bit hard, which 
just goes to show that you don’t know what you’ve got till it’s gone.
As the horse turned, Dylan could see the minotaurs glaring up at 
him and waving their huge fists. He considered giving them an 
appropriate gesture, but thought better of it, aware that he hadn’t got 
far enough away yet, and they looked pretty angry already.
Then he saw the girl, and she looked a whole lot angrier than 
anyone who’d tried to swat him so far today. He frowned. There she 
was in the square, jumping up and down, waving her fists and shouting 
something that probably wasn’t a cheery farewell. What could possibly 
be wrong? Ah, right, it was her horse, wasn’t it? He flinched and 
sucked air through his teeth.
‘Sorry!’ he shouted, but she was too far away in the rapidly 
shrinking square and too busy promising painful retribution to hear.
As the horse flicked its tail and corrected its physical and mental 
attitude, Dylan saw the minotaurs grab the girl, saw her struggle and 
kick one of them between the legs. Pity it was the one with the nose 
ring. She thrashed and fought, but she was a minnow caught in a 
bear’s claw, three bears’ claws, in fact.
Dylan pulled the reins to turn the horse and… and what? Ride down 
to rescue the fair maiden? Yeah, that would work. He relaxed his grip 
and swore.
I wish he would make up his mind, the horse thought, irritated at 
being distracted from the complex mathematics of flight. Most people 
think it’s just a matter of batting your wings and off you go, which 
proves how little humans know about self-powered flight. He sighed. 
There are a million calculations to do: wing beats per minute, attitude, 
altitude, speed and crosswind compensation. The list is endless, but of 
course, he’d mastered it long ago, though not a difficult feat for a 
horse of such — he looked up, saw the church spire dead ahead and 
made a hasty right turn.
Dylan fell off.
Ah, the horse thought, now there’s a Plan C for future reference. He 
turned slowly and headed home to his warm stable and a crunchy oat 
dinner.
Dylan didn’t do falling very well, which is surprising considering 
the practice he’d had during his drinking days, when he’d fallen over, 
fallen down and fallen out, but that was just Monday to Saturday, 
Sunday being a day off, which is always a good reason to celebrate. 
But those days were behind him now, since that time he decided to 
sun-bathe on the windowsill of his first-floor bedsit. Luckily the roof 
of the parked police car had broken his fall, amongst other things.
He still wasn’t doing falling well, but the screaming was top-notch, 
just loud enough and with that appealing vibrato you hear from the 
truly great tenors, and it was right on key — a nice B flat, rising to F 
sharp as the ground approached.
The cobbles rushed up to meet him, and his life did its best to flash 
before his eyes in the limited time available, skipping over the boring 
bits to get to the juicy scenes.
 
 
Dylan’s low-key arrival had not gone entirely unnoticed by the 
Guardians, the elite group tasked with keeping Trinity safe and well 
ordered.
Michael listened to the report being delivered by Jehoel, a cocky 
young Guardian who expected very soon to be promoted to a position 
better suited to his under-appreciated ability, and this breach of 
security could be just the opportunity he was looking for.
‘The transitioner has escaped the guards and is at large in the city,’ 
Jehoel said and watched his Supreme Commander get up from behind 
his desk and begin to pace his office. ‘What are your orders, my lord?’ 
He suppressed a smile at his boss’s obvious discomfort. Things were 
not looking too good for the Old Man — which pleased him greatly. 
This was the second breakdown of the Academy security in just a few 
months, and the last one had led to a war that even now threatened to 
return to Trinity.
Michael stopped pacing and stared out through the wide window 
without seeing the beautiful country rolling down to the banks of the 
River Styx. He too was thinking about the last time a transitioner had 
escaped. He knew that many people woke up during Transition, but 
few remained awake for very long, the Watchers saw to that. A few 
had even managed to get out of the Academy, but they were usually so 
disoriented that they were easily recovered, and even those who gained 
their senses enough to run were quickly retrieved by the Tallyman and 
his ghastly Catchers, which was just as well, as they carried the 
imprint given to them before they went to the Other Place, and that 
imprint could easily mean they were the wrong gender, a murderer, or 
both. And such a state of mind could see them totally unhinged and 
highly dangerous.
But Lucid had been the first one in two millennia to evade the 
Tallyman and escape across the Perfumed Sea to the Dark Continent.
What worried Michael most was that Lucid could not have made 
his escape without help, and that help must have come from someone 
in a position of influence. Nobody, not even the son of the Fallen 
Angel, could just walk out of the Academy, stroll through the city, and 
board a boat for the Dark Continent without the Tallyman or the 
Guardians hooking him and reeling him in.
Lucid had wasted no time in letting it be known that the son of 
Lucifer had returned to free his father from the dimension of ever-
lasting war into which he’d been cast for plotting against the Senate. 
His call had rallied the disparate tribes of rogues and monsters, exiled 
angels and those beyond redemption, who had sought refuge on the 
Dark Continent. But even though their spies had reported Lucid’s 
actions to the Guardians, they were still totally unprepared when his 
army set out towards the Perfumed Sea on route to Trinity. For the son 
of Satan to have moved against them so quickly, even now seemed 
impossible.
Michael was furious with himself and his spies for not seeing this 
coming, when with hindsight, it was obvious that Lucid would try to 
avenge his father’s imprisonment and seek to release him. The thought 
chilled Michael’s blood.
The day and night following the news of Lucid’s imminent arrival 
had been a mad scramble to assemble men and equipment, with every 
able-bodied   man   and   woman   from   the   triple   city   of   Trinity 
volunteering or being volunteered, and runners being sent to every 
corner of the land, but it was still a pitiful rabble of men, women, and 
children that welcomed him as he emerged from the palace at dawn on 
the second day of the invasion.
Michael led his hastily formed rag-tag army across the Purple Plain, 
a fist clutching his heart at the thought of what was to come. He rode 
alongside Uriel and the war-chariots of the First Triad, close behind 
the vanguard. Overhead, winged horses flew in perfect formation, 
guided by young girls picked for their riding skill and light build, 
while above them the beautiful and terrifying mist dragons soared 
through the clouds, their riders mere boys, but proud and thrilled to be 
actually riding their charges into battle, when a hundred generations 
before them had simply practiced their art in preparation for this day.
At the vanguard of the army thundered the huge desert dragons, 
pounding across the plain at a pace that would outrun a galloping 
horse. These monsters were ridden by muscular Second Triad angels, 
struggling to control the man-eaters that fiercely resented being treated 
as beasts of burden. They were noble creatures, at the top of the food 
chain in their natural habitat in the scorching white deserts of the 
Southern Continent, where the searing heat would drive a man insane. 
They were powerful, terrifying creatures that would have had their 
riders for a light snack had they suffered even a moment’s loss of 
vigilance.
Bringing up the rear was the infantry that would do the fighting; 
everyday people indistinguishable from the foot soldiers of any army 
in any part of the multiverse, armed with scythes, knives, spikes, hoes, 
or anything they could find to use as a weapon. A thousand men and 
women running in the dust of the stampede ahead of them, wild eyed, 
shouting, cursing — terrified.
Michael halted his chariot on a hill and watched the pathetically 
small and ill-equipped army race across the plain to engage the 
invaders in the desperate and seemingly doomed bid to prevent them 
gaining a foothold in Trinity. It was a magnificent and suicidal act of 
heroism, and one that he knew was almost certain to fail.
Standing with his commanders, he watched as the two armies ran 
together like blood and water. Winged horses and Messengers fell 
under a storm of arrows and crossbow bolts that filled the sky like 
wind-blown hay. Mist dragons crashed to the ground, brought down by 
quarrels as big as fence posts, fired from the massive siege crossbows 
pulled by squads of minotaurs. And all around, men and monsters 
hacked at each other in a crush of bodies that left almost no room to 
move.
On a hill across the valley, Lucid stood with his lieutenants, 
watching the carnage on the plain below and patting his dog, a vicious 
three-headed beast, whose life and duty was to protect its master. He 
smiled smugly and waited patiently for Michael’s army to break and 
run.
But they did not run. For two long days the battle raged, with 
exhausted soldiers on both sides collapsing to sleep among the dead as 
night fell, until morning brought the nightmare once again. Though 
many would not see the morning, for in the dead of night, the demon 
Abbadon drifted across the battlefield, seeking out the young riders 
and slitting their throats as they slept.
At the end of the second day, Michael looked down from the hilltop 
and saw the last of the beautiful mist dragons lying dead or dying 
beside their young riders, scattered like broken toys on the bloody 
battlefield, and knew that he was witnessing the extinction of these 
legendary creatures.
Of all the many stories of bravery that came out of that day, it was 
the self-sacrifice of the mist dragon SatoJu and her young rider that 
would be told and retold in taverns and in the hushed bedrooms of 
children waiting for sleep.
SatoJu had begun the flight with the others, nervous but excited at 
the thought of glory and battle. She responded willingly to the 
directions of the boy, known to his peers as Skyrider for his love of 
flying above the clouds, higher than any other flyer dared go. Skyrider 
was one of the youngest of the flight, barely twelve years old, but 
already showing courage far beyond his years. His unflinching bravery 
was to cost him his life.
He and SatoJu left the rest of the flight behind and climbed above 
the clouds as high as possible, up to where the air became so thin his 
lungs screamed their desperate need. From here, he could see the 
whole of the Purple Plain rolling down from the mountains of Nysa to 
the Perfumed Sea.
It was from this high vantage point that he saw a section of Lucid’s 
line break away and race to the right to outflank Michael’s exhausted 
force, and he knew they would breast the hill above the army before 
even SatoJu’s speed could get him back to warn his commander. He 
sent a single thought that SatoJu was already anticipating, and she 
folded her wings and dived through the clouds, straight at the enemy.
The outflanking force comprised more than two hundred heavily 
armed cavalry, centaurs, and minotaurs armed with their deadly siege 
crossbows.
SatoJu erupted out of the sky, spraying liquid fire onto the 
galloping army. Terrified horses stampeded, hurling their stunned 
riders to the ground under the pounding hooves of horses and centaurs. 
Riders fought to control their mounts as they careered into each other 
and reared in terror as the fire poured over them.
Those few precious moments of shock and confusion gave SatoJu 
time to turn and make a second run, and the last of the centaurs, the 
most feared of all the cavalry, fell under the searing stream of fire.
For all their power, it was not the quarrels from the two-metre-wide 
crossbows that ended the suicidally heroic flight, but a single arrow 
fired in panic by a lowly trooper a moment before a blazing centaur 
crushed him to death.
But the shaft found its mark.
SatoJu felt the ever-present telepathic link sever like the parting of 
an umbilical cord and knew the boy was dead even before he fell 
forward against her neck. She cried out against the sudden silence, 
swept round in a tight arc, and roared her grief at the surviving enemy, 
a wash of white-hot flames exploding everything and everyone it 
touched. Then she beat her wings and climbed into the sky, tears 
streaming from her golden eyes. She climbed up through the clouds, 
higher than she and Skyrider had ever been, until finally the air was 
gone and oblivion wiped away the pain and the silence. As darkness 
closed over her, she saw the boy fall away, his unseeing eyes open and 
his hands outstretched, as if reaching for her in death.
Though SatoJu’s skill and Skyrider’s sacrifice had saved the army, 
it was the young girls on their winged horses who finally turned the 
battle.
While Lucid’s army of monsters and demons roared and charged 
the exhausted farmers and shopkeepers, the Messengers carried vital 
orders to the scattered commanders, taking to the air again and again, 
knowing their fate should the massive crossbow bolts bring them down 
among the enemy.
Like crashing waves, Lucid’s army surged and charged the 
wavering line of men and angels again and again, then strutted 
triumphantly  back   to  their   ranks   with  cheers   ringing  in   their 
ears. While the monsters preened and postured, Michael’s army, 
guided by the orders carried by the Messengers, moved as a single 
unit, gradually rolling up the invaders, until once again their backs 
were to the sea.
From the high ground above the rocky beach and protected by 
Michael’s irregular infantry, his disciplined ranks of archers rained 
arrows on Lucid’s massed men and beasts for hour upon hour, fed with 
new ammunition by children barely out of infancy, running back and 
forth to the endless convoys of supply wagons arriving at the rear.
It was obvious that the slaughter could not continue, but still the 
man-beasts roared their contempt and defiance as they charged up the 
beach and died.
On the morning of the third day, the remains of Michael’s army 
climbed wearily to its feet and stared in disbelief at the deserted beach. 
For a long time an eerie silence hung over the battlefield, then the 
exhausted troops began to cheer, to laugh, to hug each other and sob.
 
 
 
‘Your orders, my Lord,’ Jehoel repeated.
Michael turned back from the window and let the images retreat 
below the surface of his mind, where they would wait to emerge again 
in his dreams.
‘Are you certain He does not know about the runner?’ he asked.
Of course He knows, Jehoel thought, He knows everything. ‘No, 
my lord, I am sure He does not.’ He shifted uncomfortably. ‘I believe 
He is taking…’ Jehoel chose his words carefully, ‘… a trip.’
Michael closed his eyes for the briefest moment, but it was long 
enough to reveal his feelings about his chief’s ‘trips’. If His obsession 
became public knowledge, it could ruin everything and cause a scandal 
that would give the senators the ammunition they needed to force an 
election, which, with Lucid’s likely return, was the last thing the 
Supreme Commander needed. The first act of a new Leader of the 
Senate would be to poke into everything, that’s what they always did, 
that and give titles and positions to their cronies, who then felt obliged 
to exercise their new power.
‘That will be all,’ Michael said.
Jehoel frowned and stood up slowly. ‘My lord?’ he said, annoyed at 
being dismissed.
‘That will be all,’ Michael repeated, with the merest glance at the 
Guardian, but that was enough.
Despite Michael’s apparent concern, Dylan waking up in Transition 
and evading the Tallyman was no surprise. He had tasked the Ghost 
with finding His Instrument to bring Lucid to book. What better way 
to catch a thief than to send another thief? But the choice of Instrument 
puzzled him. Of all the beings in Transition, the Ghost had chosen a 
youth, and one with a record that would make a grave robber wince.
He picked up a small bell and rang it once — but contrary to 
popular belief, an angel didn’t get his wings. Angels don’t have wings.
A moment later a side door opened, and Obadiah, a fawning, greasy 
little man, entered and waddled across to the desk without looking up. 
He wrung his podgy hands in the certain knowledge that he was too 
humble for such an important position as servant to the Supreme 
Commander. Yes, far too humble.
 
 
 
Dylan opened his eyes a little, expecting to be dead, but all he could 
see was a huge cobblestone filling his vision. Slowly his fear-boggled 
brain put the cobblestone into perspective. It wasn’t huge, it was just 
really close.
He opened his eyes fully and found he was floating a few inches 
above the street, which was impossible. Okay then. His nose slapped 
down onto the stone, and a rather overdressed firework display burst in 
his head, but no classical music, which was a plus. He groaned and 
rolled onto his back. ‘Ow da gell…’ he said loudly.
‘What did he say?’ a voice said somewhere beyond his tears.
‘I don’t know,’ another said. ‘He’s holding his nose. Do you think 
he has a cold?’
Dylan sat up, took his hands off his expanding nose, and looked up 
at the speakers, though it would be more accurate to say he looked up 
at one of the speakers, the other being at ground level. He stared 
around quickly in case he wasn’t actually going mad, but there really 
was only the old man and the cat. Okay, insane it is, then, must have 
been the fall, or the fear of the fall, or his life’s rerun — which is never 
as good as the old Polaroid’s remember it.
He looked the speaker over and saw an old man wearing a blue silk 
robe with stars and moons embroidered randomly on the sleeves. 
‘You’re a wizard,’ Dylan said, in a tone that was more a statement 
than a question.
The old man was puzzled. ‘I am Lailoken,’ he said slowly, in case 
the poor boy was touched.
‘Merlin,’ Dylan stated flatly, climbing painfully to his feet and 
putting out his hand. ‘Thanks, Merlin.’
The wizard looked at the hand for a moment, still frowning. ‘Thank 
me for what?’
Dylan pointed at the cobbles. ‘It was you who saved me from being 
road kill.’ He shrugged and let his hand fall unshaken.
Merlin smiled. ‘It was a small thing.’
‘Might be a small thing to you, but it’s all I’ve got,’ Dylan sniffed, 
turning and walking away up the middle of the narrow street.
Merlin trotted after him and put a hand on his arm. ‘You cannot go 
back that way.’
‘Oh,’ Dylan said, ‘and why not exactly?’
‘The Tallyman,’ Merlin said, as if that was enough.
Dylan looked at the old wizard, then back down the street. ‘Who 
were you talking to back there?’
Merlin followed his pointing finger. The cat sat at the side of the 
street, watching them with a slightly haughty demeanour, as cats do.
‘I was speaking to you,’ Merlin said helpfully.
‘No, no, before that.’
‘Why do you call me Merlin when my name is Lailoken?’ Merlin 
said, changing the subject.
Dylan pointed at the embroidered robe and shrugged. ‘If the cap 
fits.’
Merlin put his hand on his head and felt around with a puzzled 
expression that he was afraid was going to be the norm from now on.
‘Merlin was a magician, back where I…’ Dylan started, but 
couldn’t work out how to finish.
Merlin shook his head and looked around quickly. ‘No, you are 
mistaken.’ He shook his head some more. ‘Magic is not allowed here, 
it is expressly forbidden, and the punishment for flaunting the law is 
banishment.’
Well, that cleared that up.
Dylan shrugged. ‘Merlin, saying you’re not Merlin doesn’t make 
you not Merlin when you are Merlin.’
Merlin tried to unravel the sentence, but his brain began to hurt.
Dylan smiled and started walking again, but stopped and sighed as 
Merlin put his hand back on his arm. ‘What is it now?’
‘The Tallyman, remember?’
‘No,’ Dylan answered, then nodded. ‘Albino guy with a beak?’
‘A beak?’ Merlin asked and then smiled. ‘Ah, yes, a beak.’ He 
stepped up onto the narrow pavement and raised himself up to Dylan’s 
chest height. ‘If the Tallyman catches you, then I’m afraid it will all be 
over.’
Dylan sighed, if he had a pound for every time he’d heard that… 
well, actually, he’d have a pound, but that’s not the point.
‘Where did those weird creatures come from?’ he said, pointing at a 
wall in the general direction of the Academy.
Merlin shrugged. ‘I don’t know, I wasn’t there.’
‘True. Well, they were big guys, with horns and looks only a 
mother could love.’
Merlin nodded slowly. ‘Minotaurs,’ he said. ‘They are the Catchers, 
they… err, catch.’
‘But they’re not real,’ Dylan explained.
Merlin looked puzzled again.
‘They’re a myth,’ Dylan went on. ‘You know, a fairy tale, but with 
horns.’
Merlin smiled. ‘Ah, I see. Yes, transitioners sometimes retain a 
partial memory of home. That will be where your myth came from.’
‘Yeah, right,’ Dylan said.
‘You are going to find a lot of things in Eden that seem strange to 
you, or mythical, but we had them first.’
Dylan didn’t want to hurt the old duffer’s feelings by explaining 
that just because a couple of bouncers let their hair grow and favour 
horned headgear, it doesn’t make them mino-thingies. He smiled what 
he thought was a reassuring smile and crouched down to look the old 
man in the eye, ‘Look,’ he said gently, ‘that damned flying horse.’ He 
looked up, as if expecting to see it grinning down at him, and 
completely missed the point that it had been a mythical flying horse. 
‘Well, it belonged to a girl…’
‘Yes,’ Merlin said, ‘a Messenger.’
‘Okay, a Messenger. Anyway, some heavies…’ He tried to think, 
but couldn’t remember how. ‘What did you call those things?’ He 
frowned for a moment. ‘Catchers, right. Anyway, they grabbed the 
girl…’ He raised his hand. ‘Okay, they grabbed the Messenger-girl.’
Merlin shook his head. ‘Are you sure they were Catchers?’ He 
frowned again. ‘Kidnappers are usually Lucid’s monsters.’
Two questions jumped into Dylan’s mind, the second one being 
why am I standing in the middle of the street talking about monsters to 
this old loon who thinks he’s a wizard. He went with the first. ‘Who’s 
Lucid?’
Merlin looked over his shoulder, as though afraid he might be 
overheard. ‘Lucid is the Lord of the Dark Continent.’ He could see 
from Dylan’s expression that more was needed, took his arm, and led 
him in the opposite direction to the one he’d been going. Dylan did not 
resist.
‘Lucid is the son of the Fallen Angel and wishes to invade Trinity 
and take over the Academy. If he is successful, then this will be the 
end of all creation, the whole multiverse.’
Dramatic enough?
He saw Dylan’s surprised expression and continued. ‘Some time 
ago. Let me see.’ He rubbed his chin, which appeared to help. ‘Six 
months, yes, six months ago, well, there was a war between Trinity…’ 
He saw that puzzled look again and pointed at the street by way of 
explanation. ‘Trinity?’ No, not received. He sighed and clicked his 
teeth together as he thought how to phrase it so the poor boy would 
understand. ‘The war was between the people of the Triple City and 
Lucid’s army seeking to free the Fallen Angel.’ He could have saved 
his enamel.
‘Who won?’ Dylan asked without a flicker of irony.
Merlin stared at him for a moment, trying to determine if he was 
serious, and decided he was. ‘Some would say we did, but I believe it 
was a draw.’
Dylan knew a draw usually meant a replay and decided to get out of 
there as soon as possible, but first he had to save the girl. Not out of 
any misplaced sense of chivalry or honour, well, okay, a bit, but 
mostly because he’d got her into the mess in the first place — and 
because she looked really cute, of course. ‘So this Lucid bloke has 
grabbed the girl.’
‘Yes,’ Merlin said, nodding, ‘he took her, certainly.’
‘Then they’ve done this before?’
‘Many times.’
Dylan   stared   in   surprise.   ‘Then   why  doesn’t   somebody   do 
something about it?’
Merlin blinked slowly as his mind processed the question. ‘What do 
you suggest?’
‘Well, they could send a gunboat, for starters.’
‘What is a gunboat?’ Merlin was beginning to think the young man 
was indeed touched.
Dylan let that one go. ‘What about the police?’
Merlin hazarded a guess. ‘Do you mean the Guardians?’
‘Yeah, okay, the Guardians. Where are they? Let’s go and report 
the kidnapping, and they can go and get her back.’
‘Oh, no, no, no,’ Merlin said, shaking his head to add a couple 
more. ‘You can’t go to the Guardians. They would hand you over to 
the Tallyman.’
‘True,’ Dylan said. ‘If they’re anything like The Bill back home.’ 
He sat on the edge of the pavement, the pavement that had been baking 
in the hot sun all day. He jumped up, rubbing the bits that had been 
scorched through the thin hospital gown. ‘I need to get some more 
clothes.’
Merlin nodded, walked into one of the tall wooden houses, and 
came out a few minutes later carrying a bundle of brown rags, which 
he handed to Dylan, who moved them reluctantly under his nose and 
screwed up his face.
‘Did you steal these? ’Cus I’ve got to tell you, the owner isn’t going 
to be in any hurry to reclaim them.’
Merlin smiled. ‘It is your choice. If you wish, you can continue to 
walk around in that shirt, which incidentally, does a poor job of 
covering you.’
Dylan looked down at the short gown. ‘Okay, I’ll go with the rags 
until I can find a clothes store.’
Merlin opened his mouth, then thought better of it and let him start 
to put on the robe. After a moment, he tapped him on the shoulder and 
pulled the long robe round to face the front, otherwise the boy would 
be wearing the hood as a facemask.
The coming days were going to be a severe challenge.
Eventually Dylan got the robe on, but wished he hadn’t. ‘I think 
something is still wearing this,’ he said, scratching various places. 
‘Okay,’ he said at last, the biting having subsided, ‘you were telling 
me about Lucas.’
‘Lucid,’ Merlin corrected.
‘Okay, Lucid. So why is he snatching girls?’ Dylan asked, even 
though he could think of a few reasons. Turns out he was right.
‘Breeding,’ Merlin said and started to walk down the street.
Dylan’s jaw dropped. ‘What?’ He hurried after the old man, who 
was a lot sprightlier than he looked. ‘Wait up! Why is Lucid… 
breeding?’ Stupid question.
He caught up with the wizard and glanced down as the black cat 
padded alongside. ‘I think I’ve seen this cat before.’
Merlin glanced at the cat. ‘Possibly, she gets around.’ He smiled a 
little smile. ‘Her name is Galen.’
Dylan looked at Galen; it was a black cat. There are thousands of 
black cats. ‘Hey, wait, about the girl.’
Merlin nodded knowingly. ‘Yes, she was very pretty, wasn’t she?’
Dylan shrugged. ‘Didn’t notice,’ he lied, ‘I was too busy trying to 
stay on that damned horse.’
‘Not very successfully, it would appear,’ Merlin said.
‘I prefer something with an engine and no brain.’
‘Did you notice anything else about this girl?’ Merlin asked, 
stopping and looking up at Dylan. ‘Besides her looks.’
Dylan pulled an ‘I’m thinking’ face, then nodded slowly. ‘I suppose 
she looked a bit like Abbi.’ He saw the old man’s frown. ‘Abbi’s my 
sister.’ He flinched. ‘Which, now that I think about it, sounds a bit, 
you know, pervy.’
Merlin nodded sagely, not having the vaguest idea what the boy 
was talking about. ‘I’m afraid it is more than a passing resemblance.’
Dylan stared at him. ‘What do you mean?’ He looked back down 
the street and replayed the memory. ‘Come on, that girl was much 
younger than Abbi, and…’ He let it go.
‘And Abbi walks with the aid of a stick,’ Merlin said. It wasn’t a 
question, and he raised his hand to stop Dylan before he could 
respond. ‘Have you asked yourself where you are?’
No, of course he hadn’t, that would involve walking and thinking at 
the same time.
‘I’ve been a bit busy for pondering the meaning of life,’ Dylan said 
sharply, then sighed. ‘Okay, it did occur to me that this was a strange 
town to have such a big hospital.’ He looked around. ‘Too primitive.’
‘Thank you, I’m sure the populace of Trinity would be flattered.’
‘No, that’s not what I meant.’ Yes, it was. ‘It’s a bit… rural.’ Good 
recovery.
‘It’s more than that,’ Merlin said, wandering off.
Dylan took a long look around, as if it was the first time he’d seen 
the rough wooden buildings leaning against each other for support, or 
the cobbled streets without any sign of cars, or anything else 
mechanical for that matter. Rural, he concluded, but a little nagging 
voice told him that was not the whole truth — or maybe he just needed 
a kebab — but wherever he was and whoever that girl was, even if she 
did look a bit like Abbi, he’d dropped her in it, and he was going to get 
her out again. A noble goal, but an obstacle lay in his way — several, 
in fact.
‘Where have they taken her?’ he called after the departing old man, 
who waved a walking stick and strode on, leaving Dylan wondering if 
he’d just missed the stick, or if the old man he’d named Merlin really 
was a bit of a conjurer.
He looked back down the street, as if weighing up what to do next, 
and slowly his shoulders sagged as he realised at last that there was 
nothing he could do, next or at any other time. He strode after the 
wizard and the cat, which had stopped for a moment to give him a long 
looking at before padding after her master.
I hate cats, Dylan thought as he caught up with them.
‘We’re not highly enamoured with you either,’ said a voice in his 
head.
He stopped and looked around, then down at the cat. No, no way, 
he was just tired. ‘Hey, where are we going?’ he called after the 
wizard, who had turned right into a narrow alley. He heard an echoing 
reply that could have been anything and ran after the old man.
‘Hey, wait up!’ But the old man was already rounding a sharp bend 
and disappearing out of sight. Dylan realised suddenly that if he lost 
the wizard, he would be on his own in Medieval World, which would 
be like getting of the Circle Line a stop too soon; man, you could be 
anywhere.
He caught up with Merlin as he crossed a small square, which 
would probably be called something like Piazza Bella Senorita if it 
was in Italy, but here it was called Scragg’s Cobbled Yard. He put a 
hand on the wizard’s arm. ‘Hold up.’ He puffed as he caught his 
breath. No taxis in Medieval World. ‘Let’s sit over there in the shade, 
and you can catch your breath.’ Dylan pointed at a rug some kind soul 
had hung over a low wall in the inviting shade.
It never even occurred to Merlin that the rug was anything other 
than an act of kindness provided for the weary traveller, and he 
followed the boy into the shade, gratefully, it has to be said.
They sat, and Merlin waited patiently for the boy to get his breath 
back. It was time he knew the truth. ‘You remember the story of 
Eden?’
‘Yeah,’ Dylan said, ‘Adam, Eve, and some weasely guy with an 
apple or a snake.’ He shrugged and was sure there was more. 
Something about fig leaves.
Merlin smiled. ‘Rather a simplified version, but it will do as a 
starting point.’
Dylan frowned, an expression that was becoming almost de rigueur 
in this nutty place. ‘What’s that got to do with some hairy guys 
snagging the Messenger-girl?’
‘Like I said, it’s a start.’ He smiled. ‘In fact, it is The start.’ He 
liked that. ‘Many millennia ago,’ Merlin began, and Dylan resisted the 
temptation to add, ‘In a galaxy far, far away.’
Merlin wondered if millennia was pushing the boy too far, but 
decided to go for it. ‘A long time ago,’ he corrected in mid flow, ‘all 
mankind lived here.’ He spread his hands expansively, and Dylan 
looked around Scragg’s Cobbled Yard. ‘It was a bad time, with wars 
and pillaging as the strongest tried to grab whatever everyone else 
had.’ He shook his head. ‘Bad times indeed.’
‘Ah, tell me about it,’ Dylan said absently, in a staring contest with 
the cat, and losing.
‘Very well,’ Merlin said and told him The Story, as his father had 
told him, and his father before him, and… well, a lot of them anyway.
It was dark — which is a bit like saying infinity is big. There was 
nothing in the universe except a big ball of hot swirly fire, rolling 
about itself and crackling angrily. Not pleasant.
Tze was a novice Architect with big plans, and he was about to kick 
one of them off. He poked the big crackling ball with his stick — a 
special Architect’s stick made of, well, Architect-stick stuff. Not much 
happened, except a bit more cracking and fizzling, so he looked 
around to make sure none of the Architects could see him out here in 
the nether regions of the multiverse. He was alone, well, as alone as 
it’s possible to be when you’re part of a cosmic consciousness, which I 
have to tell you, is totally overrated.
‘Oh, sod it,’ he thought, swung his stick over his shoulder, and let 
rip. A perfect setup, not too fast, and a lovely follow-through. The 
swirly ball streaked up towards the top of infinity and curved back a 
little before its surface tension shattered and it exploded with a very 
satisfyingly big bang.
Not too shabby, Tze thought, watching the pretty fireworks whiz 
off into the void. You know, he thought, this could be a good place to 
practice, you know, without anybody seeing my cock-ups and pointing 
a finger.
And so this, contrary to all that rubbish in the press, was how the 
universe was born.
All he had to do now was design a decent planet or two, stick some 
people on them, and he’d be away. Couple of months, tops, and he’d 
have ironed out the kinks in his approach to Architecting. What could 
go wrong?
Things went wrong from the start, as is the way with most best laid 
plans. Tze designed and built an array of star systems, planets, and 
other stellar bric-a-brac as specified in the Architect’s handbook for 
fledging universes. Then he balanced the environment in one of the 
more promising solar systems, but if, as later reported, in the 
beginning was the Word, then that word was ‘bugger!’
He built a nice planet, with lush foliage, and water, and happy 
bunnies, and he saw it was good, so he created man, but it was 
Saturday, and he was tired and a bit bored.
Right off, they started fighting each other — and eating the bunnies, 
which was not part of the Grand Design. And they started multiplying 
at an alarming rate — due mostly to running around in the forest 
wearing nothing but shiny fig leaves. The more of them there were, the 
bigger the punch-ups.
By the time Tze came back after his Sunday off, it was totally out 
of hand. They had invented all sorts of ways of doing each other in, so 
the victor could collect more things, because things, it turned out, gave 
the owner a power over others, so that they bought more things, which 
gave him more power. Tze finished off his breakfast on Monday 
morning and watched his experiment with growing alarm. A nice cup 
of tea later, they had invented automatic weapons and flying machines 
and were grabbing whole countries full of stuff. Two rounds of toast 
munched was time enough for them to have graduated to chemical and 
biological warfare.
He guessed that by the time he’d finished off the little bunch of 
grapes his mom insisted he have every day, the pests would have 
exterminated each other, and his problem will have gone away. Oh, if 
only life were that simple.
A scientist in the western continent had the idea, and it was a 
doozy. He realised that if a man could live forever, well, at least a long 
time, then he would have longer to enjoy all the things he’d got by 
killing off the other folks. Scientifically speaking, it was hard to fault.
Tze saw it straight away, which showed he wasn’t quite the dimwit 
this cock-up would suggest. If these greedy, selfish, and bloodthirsty 
people got to live forever, it wouldn’t be long — in cosmic terms — 
before they were up here with the Architects. Bad, oh yes, really, 
really bad. But what to do? He hid, but that didn’t work out, as they’d 
invented space travel by the time he came out of the cupboard and 
were transporting their barbarism all over the place.
That was it, then, he’d have to tell his master, and the prospect 
caused his knees to shake. He could just hear him now, he’d say…
‘You did what?’ Tze Tsu’s face was purple, which is never a good 
sign for apprentices bringing bad news to the boss. ‘Let me get this 
straight,’ he said through clenched teeth. ‘You created a Place, and 
then you populated it with beings?’
Tze nodded, looked at his feet, and noted they were still there. His 
master would calm down, he always did.
‘Are you completely devoid of even a modicum of sense, boy?’ Not 
calm, then.
‘We could terminate it,’ Tze suggested, breaking the first law of 
being chewed out by your boss — that being… shut up.
‘No…we…cannot…terminate…it,’ Tze Tsu growled very slowly. 
‘Haven’t you learned anything in your time at my drawing board?’
That’ll be no.
Tze Tsu took long, deep breaths, which, though they didn’t calm 
him down much, at least stopped the impending heart attack. He 
walked away; he walked back. ‘That Place was not scheduled for 
deployment until next financial year.’ Which for those of us on 
standard time, is… well, a one with lots of zeros.
‘Very well, it’s done,’ Tze Tsu said, closing his eyes for a moment 
to find his centre. ‘We can simply pick up the pieces and engineer the 
cosmical expanse into some kind of order.’ He scratched his chin. 
‘Perhaps it isn’t too late—’
‘They have discovered immortality,’ Tzu said quietly, without 
looking up. Shouldn’t be a problem, though, his master was a…
‘They have done what?’
Ah, not quite as expected.
‘They have discovered—’
‘Yes, yes, I heard you!’ Tze Tsu snapped. ‘How, how…’ He shook 
his head. This was a disaster. They would say it was his fault; say he 
didn’t keep a tight rein on the smart-ass kid, who was turning out just 
like his father, they’d say. He would have to tell the judges, and they 
would say…
‘He did what?’ Tze Tsu Tza was not chuffing. He had only popped 
into the office today to pick up his golf clubs, and what lands in his 
lap? A breach of the Second Legal Statute, that’s what. He looked at 
the golf bag leaning forlornly against the wall. Well, he could forget 
that, but perhaps it wasn’t completely hopeless, the Second Statute had 
been broken before, and they just rolled the timetable forward. Now if 
it had been the First — he trembled at the thought, but no, it was just 
the Second, so, yes, golf was still possible, if—
‘They have discovered immortality,’ Tze Tsu said quietly, looking 
at his feet and confirming, as had his apprentice, that they were still 
there.
Tze Tsu Tza sat down, put his elbows on the desk, and sank his 
head into his hands. No tears, but the day wasn’t over yet.
That was it, then, he would have to tell the Legislature. He sighed. 
And they would say…
‘He has done what?’ The Deputy Judgemaster General was not a 
happy bunny. He’d been planning to knock off early for a long 
weekend with the missus.
Tze Tsu Tza got in quickly, ‘They have developed immortality,’ 
before they got their hopes up.
There was a shared groan from the twelve old and wise judges 
sitting behind the curved legislature benchette — the full bench being 
in the workshop for repairs after that idiot Tze Tsa Tro dropped the 
mace when he was passing sentence. They’d told the old codger it was 
too heavy for him, but no, off he goes, waving it about like it was a 
wand or something.
The Deputy Judgemaster General — whose name, not surprisingly, 
began with Tze, but then became unpronounceable, so his wife called 
him T G — pulled himself back to the problem. ‘So, gentlemen,’ he 
said a trifle pompously, ‘we have somewhat of a dilemma.’
‘I should say so,’ said that mouthy new judge sitting at T G’s right, 
but shut up under the withering look from his superior.
T G continued, feeling a little cheered by the success of ‘The Look’ 
he’d been practicing in the mirror after shaving. ‘This is a first, I 
believe—’
‘No,’ said the old codger who’d dropped the mace, ‘I think you will 
find that it is not entirely without precedent.’
Whatever, T G thought. ‘Still, it has been long enough for any other 
occurrences of this transgression to have disappeared from shared 
memory.’
All Tze heard was ‘transgression’. He was in the smelly stuff, that 
was for sure.
‘I remember it,’ the old codger said.
Yes, you would, T G thought. ‘Yes, quite,’ he said and took a long 
blow into his hanky. ‘I’m sure it wasn’t the same anyway,’ he added, 
then deployed The Look again before the old codger could argue. ‘I 
propose, therefore, that we terminate the Place forthwith.’ Then he 
could get on with his long weekend before it was too late.
‘Can’t do that,’ the old codger said with a shake of his head and a 
firm set chin — not easy at his age.
‘And why not?’ The mouthy new guy again, butting in.
The old codger took a deep breath in preparation for the big speech.
‘We passed a law some time ago forbidding precisely that action,’ 
T G said, with a sigh of resignation as he remembered why. ‘To 
prevent, err, shall we say, less responsible members of this Legislature 
erasing, shall we say, less favourable actions before a judicial review 
can determine the constitutional—’
‘Before the proper finger wagging and apportionment of blame.’ 
The mouthy new guy had a point.
‘Yes, well, be that as it may,’ T G said, ploughing on. ‘Issuing 
notice for the removal of the unscheduled Place is not within this 
Legislature’s remit.’
‘We could just cull the inhabitants and either start again or use it as 
a prison,’ said the really thin judge with the watery eyes. ‘Or a theme 
park. I love theme parks.’
T G closed his eyes and sighed heavily. ‘Yes, you would,’ he said 
mostly to himself. ‘Prison or theme park? Not much to choose from 
there.’ He made a decision. They could all see that from the puffed-out 
chest and all that nodding. ‘You,’ he said, pointing at Tze Tsu.
Tze Tsu snapped back from the standing nap he’d been taking. 
‘What? Who? It wasn’t me. I have no recollection of that event.’ That 
worked, nobody would have noticed.
‘You,’ T G said in the voice of the Legislature — which was like 
his own voice, but a bit strangled from all the puffing up. ‘You created 
this mess,’ he said to the startled Tze Tsu. ‘Then you clean it up.’ He 
picked up the mace and put it right back down again because it 
weighed a ton and his back was giving him jip. ‘Or else,’ he added, for 
effect.
‘I have an idea,’ Tze said, very, very quietly.
‘Shut up,’ Tze Tsu hissed.
‘Speak up,’ T G said. ‘Speak up, boy.’
Oh great, Tze Tsu thought, seeing his future turn into one designing 
rocks in a two-dimensional universe.
Tze spoke up. ‘We could educate the new beings so they know how 
to behave.’
‘Ah,’ the mouthy new guy said, ‘that won’t work.’
‘That might work,’ said the thin judge with the watery eyes. ‘It’s 
better than terminating them.’ He shrugged a ‘What?’ shrug in 
response to the long pitying looks from the others. ‘It might be fun.’
T G thought about it for a moment, then remembered what his 
missus had promised she would do to him if he was late for the trip to 
her mother’s, again. ‘Yes,’ he said quickly. ‘Yes, go and do that.’ He 
stood up, started to collect his bits and pieces, then stopped. ‘And 
you…’ He pointed at Tze Tsu. ‘We hold you responsible for the 
success or otherwise of this plan,’ he said, putting a mental tick in the 
‘somebody pencilled in for blame’ box. He smiled at the apprentice 
trying to become invisible. ‘Well done, boy.’ The smile again. ‘An 
excellent plan.’ One has to encourage the young.
Tze Tsu got a handful of Tze’s collar and dragged him away from 
the Legislature. ‘What did I tell you?’ he growled. ‘Don’t say 
anything, I said. What did I say?’
‘Don’t say anything,’ Tze said, as is required of such questions.
‘And what did you do?’
We all know what he did, so no answer was necessary.
‘Right,’ Tze Tsu said, stopping on the steps and glaring at the 
novice Architect. ‘No weekends for you, not until you come up with a 
workable plan.’ Right, time for golf.
‘I have a plan,’ Tze said, feeling a little cross now. Okay, he had 
screwed up, but only a bit, and all this fuss and threats. Is that any way 
to reward enthusiasm? No, I don’t think so.
Tze Tsu tilted his head and dared the apprentice to speak.
‘I will visit them and—’
‘Ah!’ Tze Tsu threw his head back and tutted a good tut.
‘I will let them know they are not the only beings in the multiverse 
and that they have to learn to behave.’
That will never… you know, it just might. Tze Tsu chewed the 
inside of his lip and thought it over. ‘Very well,’ he said with a shrug. 
‘Probably a complete waste of time, but we have to be seen to be 
doing something.’ He sat on the marble steps and waved Tze down 
beside him. Cosy. ‘Very well, tell me your plan.’
Tze made it up as he went along. ‘I will speak to their leaders…’ So 
far, so good. ‘And tell them that they must curb their barbarism and…’ 
And…   and…?   ‘They   must   follow   our   guidance   in   becoming 
responsible omnipotent beings.’ Quite good. ‘I will arrange for their 
young to have their souls sent to school in another dimension, where 
they can make all the mistakes they need to make, without the 
consequences.’ Better and better. ‘Then, when their race is truly wise, 
they will be able to join the Accord.’
Tze Tsu nodded slowly. That could work, it was just off the wall 
enough to do it. ‘Very well,’ he said, getting up slowly and rubbing his 
icy-cold bits. ‘Do it.’ Command given, off for a warm bath — he had 
arranged for a quick game of meteor marbles, but now it was too late 
and too cold, and anyway, his partner for the round was much better 
than him, and who wants to keep losing? She could find somebody 
else to humiliate. Bath it is, then.
Tze wasted no time crossing the cosmos to the planet of the 
barbarians, but he couldn’t just turn up, that would scare the pants off 
them, so he visited each of the world’s leaders in various disguises. 
And each one gave him their considered response to his wise and 
bountiful offer.
‘Bugger off!’
Not an auspicious start, so he fell back on the fine foil of the true 
diplomat and told them to sign up or get squished. Okay then, all 
signed up.
Now kids of Trinity go through Transition before they are old 
enough to do anything about it.
Until they reach their troublesome teens, Trinity’s children go to 
ordinary school to learn what they need to support their parents in their 
old age — and rightly so. Then, when they get to be teenagers, and just 
before they become completely unmanageable, they’re bundled off to 
the Academy in Trinity, and then into Transition. Three years later 
they graduate, get their memories adjusted and are turfed out into the 
world.
An elegant solution that works better than expected, with the 
memory adjustment meaning the transitioners even get to go home for 
the holidays, to tell their families all about the great education they 
think they are getting.
 
‘And it has worked perfectly well for six million years. Up till now,’ 
Merlin said pointedly.
‘Yeah,’ Dylan said, still trying to out-stare the cat, ‘and I bet I can 
guess what’s happened.’
Merlin watched him for a moment, waiting for him to guess, then 
gave up. He could see he had exceeded the boy’s one-minute 
concentration span, so summarised it for him. ‘So here we are, in 
Eden, after completing our time in the Other Place,’ he said and stood 
up, clearly ready for the off.
Dylan gave up on the cat, deciding he had an unfair advantage, 
being of higher intelligence. ‘So, this Other Place, err… place,’ Dylan 
said.
‘Oh, yes,’ Merlin said, ‘Transition.’
‘Bit of a strange name,’ Dylan said, trying not to look at the cat, 
who seemed to be annoyed about something.
‘Oh, you call it Earth, but that’s just one of those hungover 
memories transitioners sometimes have and think are real,’ Merlin said 
and strode away, leaving Dylan with his mouth open as a docking port 
for any passing blowfly.
****
…So now Dylan knows he’s not in Kansas. All he has to do is get his 
sister back from Lucid. Maybe he’ll ask him nicely. What could 
possibly go wrong?  
Take a minute to enjoy how our hero handles the challenge – this 
should be good…
Get Book 1 - Eden’s Last Hero from your favorite book site.
AL L  L E I GH  BA R KE R ’S  B OOKS  
Eden Series
Fantasy: All the adventures during the war in heaven
Eden’s Last Hero (Book #1)
Mad times with our reluctant hero
 
Winterwood (#2)
A small town fights for its life
 
Requiem for Eden (#3)
Four young knights take on Lucid’s army and the Norsemen to save 
Eden
The Hellfire Series
All the roller-coaster Hellfire Crime Thrillers
 
A Whisper of Armageddon (Book #1)
Off-the-wall characters, edge-of-your-seat action and suspense
 
The Hellfire Legacy (#2)
Action-packed Ethan Gill Thriller
 
The Orpheus Directive (#3)
The Marine Squad is back in action
Jack Duggan
US Federal Marshals - Crime Thrillers
In Harm’s Way (Book #1)
US Federal Marshal Jack Duggan: sometimes a man has to make a 
stand, no matter the odds.
A Warrant for Jimmy Detroit (#2)
Jack Duggan is the law. There is no exception. But sometimes 
there’s only justice.
Clan Series
Historical Fiction: All of Calum Maclean’s great adventures 
fighting English tyranny
 
Clan: Calum’s Sword (Book #1)
Rip-roaring Adventures during the Jacobite Rebellion
  
Clan: Calum’s Exile (#2)
Calum’s adventures in The New World
 
Clan: Calum’s Country (#3)
Calum’s Return to Scotland
Soldiers
Historical Fiction: World War One
Regret’s Mission
Explosive Great War Adventures
10-Minute Escapes – The whole Short Story Collection
All 18 great stories – for when it’s time just for you.
Leigh’s website: www.LeighWBarker.com <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Frostbite
E.J. Stevens
Frostbite
E.J. Stevens
Published by Sacred Oaks Press
Copyright 2017 E.J. Stevens
All rights reserved
Publisher’s Note
This is a work of fiction.  Names, characters, places, and incidents either are the product of the 
author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to actual persons, living or 
dead, business establishments, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.
The scanning, uploading and distribution of this book via the Internet or via any other means 
without the permission of the publisher is illegal and punishable by law.  Please purchase only 
authorized electronic editions, and do not participate in or encourage electronic piracy of 
copyrighted materials.  Your support of the author’s rights is appreciated.
Ebook Edition, License Notes
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given 
away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase 
an additional copy for each person. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was 
not purchased for your use only, then please purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting 
the hard work of this author.
Introduction
Welcome to Harborsmouth, where monsters walk the streets unseen by humans…except 
those with second sight.
Whether visiting our modern business district or exploring the cobblestone lanes of the 
Old Port quarter, please enjoy your stay.  When you return home, do tell your friends about our 
wonderful city—just leave out any supernatural details.
Don’t worry—most of our guests never experience anything unusual.  Otherworlders, 
such as faeries, vampires, and ghouls, are quite adept at hiding within the shadows.  Many are 
also skilled at erasing memories.  You may wake in the night screaming, but you won’t recall 
why.  Be glad that you don’t remember—you are one of the fortunate ones.
If you do encounter something unnatural, we recommend the services of Ivy Granger, 
Psychic Detective.  Co-founder of Private Eye detective agency, Ivy Granger is a relatively new 
member of our small business community.  Her offices can be found on Water Street, in the heart 
of the Old Port.
Miss Granger has a remarkable ability to receive visions by the act of touching an object. 
This skill is useful in her detective work, especially when locating lost items.  Whether you are 
looking for a lost brooch or missing persons, no job is too small for Ivy Granger—and she could 
certainly use the business.
We can also provide, upon request, a list of highly skilled undertakers.  If you are in need 
of their services, then we also kindly direct you to Harborsmouth Cemetery Realty.  It’s never 
too early to contact them, since we have a booming “housing” market.  Demand is quite high for 
a local plot—there are always people dying for a place to stay.
FROSTBITE
“What a beautiful cat, Miss Granger.”
I frowned, but let the comment slide. I didn’t have any pets, not unless you counted the 
dust bunnies collecting beneath my desk.
Jess “Jinx” Braxton raised a questioning eyebrow, but I shrugged. I didn’t have anything 
helpful to share with my rockabilly business partner. The frail woman tottering along at Jinx’s 
elbow either needed new glasses or she was nuttier than weresquirrel poop.
Mrs. Boyd wouldn’t be my first loony client. Working for a client who sees things that 
aren’t really there is an occupational hazard when you advertise as the city’s best (and only) 
psychic detective.
Who was I to judge? One of my special talents is the ability to see through glamour. A lot 
of supernatural creatures use glamour to hide in plain sight, and my gift cuts through the glitz 
and glitter of vampire compulsion and faerie magic.  It’s not as fun as it sounds. I’ve seen things 
no human should ever see.
Second sight is a blessing and a curse.
Monsters walk the streets of Harborsmouth. If it slinks, slithers, flies, or oozes, I’ve 
probably had the dubious pleasure of making its acquaintance. The fact that some of those things 
cross the street to avoid me hasn’t escaped my notice. A detective’s job is to take note of the 
little things, the small details that can break a case wide open, but having anthropomorphic snot 
treat you like you smelled worse than a troll fart could give a girl a complex. Some things are 
best to ignore or chalk up to sunny disposition.
I gave our client my best smile and waved a gloved hand at the seat in front of my desk. 
She flinched and latched onto Jinx’s tattooed arm, huddling like a gryphon chick beneath its 
mother’s wing. My partner shot me a warning glare and I toned down the charm.
“So, what can we help you with, Mrs. Boyd?” I asked, leaning back in my chair.
Best not to scare the client, at least not before she paid. Jinx reminded me of that often 
enough, and she kept the books. If she said we were in the red, then we were hemorrhaging our 
last pennies. Magic weapons and protective spells don’t come cheap, and Jinx complains when 
we run out of food. So, I rested my gloved hands on the desk where my client could see them, 
adopted a relaxed pose, and tried not to let the woman’s cat comment stir up painful memories of 
my childhood pet. Fluffy was dead and there was no sense living in the past. Surviving in the 
present was hard enough.
“Please, call me Maggie,” she said, taking a seat.
Mrs. Boyd, Maggie, cast a nervous glance toward Jinx. I sighed, but nodded for Jinx to 
stick around. It looked like we’d be working this case together.
The fingers on my right hand reflexively went to my forearm, checking and double-
checking the comforting presence of the silver-tipped iron blade hidden beneath my leather 
jacket. Something had our client spooked and Jinx was the people person in our little business 
venture, but having my partner leave the office set my teeth on edge. She was organized, great at 
keeping me on track, and sweet as cherry pie to our clients, but my partner had a knack for 
personal injury. We didn’t call her Jinx for nothing.
“Okay, Maggie,” I said. “How can we help?”
I held my breath, trying not to fidget in my chair. Maybe this would be an easy case, 
something completely mundane. Not every case was fraught with danger. Jinx might finally 
make it through a case without bumps and bruises.
So why were my insides being torn up by a pack of rabid vampire bats?
“It’s my house,” she said, waving her hands. Her cheeks flushed and her over-bright eyes 
darted between Jinx and me. “It’s haunted.”
That was doubtful. There are a lot of weird things that exist in Harborsmouth. I knew that 
more than most. But I’d never seen a ghost.
 I put on my best poker face, leaned forward, and made a show of picking up a pen and 
flipping open my notepad.
“Can you describe this ghost?” I asked.
“Oh, the place is quite haunted,” she said. “There’s more than one ghost. I’m sure of it.”
“And what makes you say that?” I asked.
“Furniture moving, moaning, groaning...that sort of thing,” she said, blinking rapidly.
Jinx mouthed “pooka orgy?” from over Maggie’s shoulder, and I had to stifle a giggle. 
My lip twitched, but I’d learned the hard way not to act like a crazy person in front of the clients, 
not until the check cleared.
“Have you noticed anything missing?” I asked, pen tapping a blank sheet of paper. 
“Spoons? Candleholders? Jewelry?”
“Nothing like that,” she said, shaking her head.
Well, that ruled out Jinx’s pooka orgy theory. I’d worked a few pooka infestations, and 
the supernatural rodents were notorious for stealing anything shiny that wasn’t nailed down with 
iron. The only thing the bacchanalian critters liked more than an orgy was thievery.
“You’re sure?” I asked.
“No, the only thing I’ve lost is weight,” she said. “Which is strange since I’m hungry all 
the time. Not that I’m complaining. I was carrying around more than a few extra pounds before 
moving here last month.”
That was hard to believe. The woman was gaunt to the point of emaciation. I narrowed 
my eyes and turned my head, trying to see through any lingering glamour. Most of the time, my 
gift works on its own, whether I want it to or not, but sometimes it needs a nudge.
“You moved here recently?” I asked, making a show of taking notes.
Sneaking up on the truth works in tricky cases, but all I saw in my peripheral vision was a 
frail woman in need of a sandwich. Something strange was going on here, and I had a bad feeling 
that I’d have to use my psychic gift before this case was solved.
You see, I’m twice cursed. Not only do I have the gift of second sight, a gift I’d happily 
return, but I also get visions when my skin touches certain objects. During a vision, I slip into a 
memory and experience events through the eyes of whoever left a psychic impression behind. 
The trouble is, it takes strong emotions to leave behind a psychic impression, and most things 
that make a person feel that deeply are painful or terrifying. Experiencing that much fear isn’t 
healthy, and there was a very real risk of losing my sense of self, becoming trapped in someone 
else’s nightmare, but sometimes it was the only way to solve a case.
Psychometry was a dangerous gift, but it paid the bills.
“Were there any belongings left behind by the previous owners?” I asked, chest 
tightening. “Or any rooms that weren’t fully renovated before you moved in?”
“Oh, yes,” Maggie said. “I’ve barely touched a thing. I had big plans for the place, but I 
haven’t felt up to a big D.I.Y. project yet. I just haven’t had the energy. And there are the ghosts 
to think of. Will you look into the matter? I know it’s a strange thing to investigate, but when I 
asked around, everyone said that you’re the one to handle weird...unusual cases.”
I gritted my teeth, but nodded. I’d always been an outcast, a weirdo. Screaming about 
monsters and slipping into unwanted visions had led to a lonely childhood until I’d met Jinx.
“I’ll take the case, but I need to investigate your house, go through some of the previous 
owner’s old things,” I said.
“Of course,” she said, clutching her handbag to her chest. “Is today too soon? It’s just...I 
haven’t been sleeping. At least, I don’t remember the last time I slept.”
“No problem,” I said. “Jinx has the address?”
She nodded, and I pushed away from the desk and stood. We had an active case and I 
didn’t want to waste time, but it would be foolish to run off without a plan. My eyes flicked to 
the wall clock.
“Expect us around two o’clock,” I said. “You’re welcome to go out while we investigate. 
Just leave the door unlocked.”
That gave us over an hour to come up with a plan and stuff my pockets with weapons and 
protective charms. I’d like more time, but the woman was visibly shaken. Whatever had invaded 
her home was drawing her energy in some way. She was practically fading out of existence as 
we spoke.
“Thank you, Miss Granger,” she said, already standing and scurrying toward the door. 
“And don’t worry about me being home. I retired just before moving to Harborsmouth, and I 
hardly ever leave the house.”
 Maggie Boyd walked out onto the streets of the Old Port Quarter, and I frowned. She 
was so sickly and rail thin, I’d mistaken her for an elderly lady, but the woman was only recently 
retired and more likely in her sixties. So much for my keen observational skills.
“Buck up,” Jinx said with a wink. “So what if we have a reputation for taking on 
whacked cases? I say bring it on, the stranger the better. Weird is the new cool.”
That was easy for her to say. Jinx hadn’t seen the creatures that roamed our city, stalking 
humans as prey and ensnaring them in a deceitful web of pestilential lies and poisonous bargains.
I shrugged and opened the desk drawer where I kept my stash of hardcore protection 
charms. We were once again heading into unknown territory with no clue of what we were up 
against. Jinx could go on thinking a weird case like this was cool, but I listened to my gut, and 
right now my insides were churning into painful knots as my stomach tried to climb out my ear.
I was good at finding the truth, but I had a nagging suspicion that Maggie’s house 
wouldn’t reveal its secrets without a fight.
*****
Maggie Boyd’s new digs were in a neighborhood to the north of the Old Port Quarter, 
wedged between the slums of Joysen Hill and the gentrification of the Quarter. There was a 
lower ratio of bars to homes here, but the streets weren’t entirely residential. I would have 
missed the dead-end lane entirely if it wasn’t for the kids using the sign for target practice. Their 
ammunition was broken chunks of pavement, but I gave them a smile with too many teeth, and 
they scattered.
We made it partway down the alley before the gang tags stopped and the brick buildings 
ended, replaced by a truck graveyard on one side of the street and a weed-strewn lot on the other. 
At the end of the lane, stood a simple house that had seen better days.
The house was a basic single-story Cape with faded clapboards that might have been red 
at one time, but now gave the appearance of flaking rust. A chain-link fence and the backside of 
a warehouse rose behind the structure, leaving the house in deep shadow. The alley was also 
dark, making the yard in front of the house the only sunny spot. Weeds, grass, and tangled vines 
thrived in the patch of sunlight.
“She has her own secret garden, cool,” Jinx said with a grin.
“So did Miss Havisham,” I muttered.
I eyed our exits before approaching the house. Maggie hadn’t lived here long, but it was 
still surprising that the exterior and grounds were this rundown. If I didn’t know better, I’d have 
guessed the place abandoned for decades.
I stepped gingerly over bits of debris, boots crunching on gravel as I made my way 
slowly down the footpath. The gate was gone, rotten away or scavenged for firewood, but my 
skin tingled as I passed beyond the dilapidated wooden fence and into Maggie’s dooryard. A 
chill ran up my spine and I spun on my heel, but whatever I’d sensed, I was too late.
Jinx let out a startled cry, arms windmilling in an attempt to stay upright, but her platform 
sandals weren’t helping. She reached out a hand, and I jerked away. It was a reflex born of years 
of negative visions, but I knew I’d screwed up.
As if Jinx's look of hurt and resignation wasn't bad enough, I overcorrected and landed on 
all fours. Warm wet grass slid inside the gap between my sleeve and glove, as if the ground was 
hungrily running its many tongues along my wrist, tasting my skin.
I shuddered, yanking my hand away and rapidly climbed to my feet. I'd had a run-in with 
Hunger Grass on a previous case and it hadn’t gone well. In fact, the case had gone to Hell in a 
handbasket of woven rusty razorblades.
 I rubbed gloved hands against my pants, and shuddered. Backpedaling, I glanced left and 
right, but nobody was trying to eat our faces off. It was just Jinx and me.
“What the heck just happened?” Jinx asked, frowning. “You get a vision?”
“Not a vision,” I said, voice shaking. I swallowed hard, attention shifting to the house as I 
stepped back onto the path. “Our client ever mention an unexplained hunger or neighborhood 
pets going rabid?”
“No,” she said, brow wrinkling.
“You sure?” I asked.
“I'd have remembered pets foaming at the freaking mouth,” she said. “What gives?”
The correct question was, what takes? Hunger Grass was nasty stuff. Most people who 
step on a patch of the stuff end up changed and not for the better. First you lose your sense of 
right and wrong. Then you lose everything and everyone you ever loved.
I was immune to the stuff, but I had no idea why and even less interest in finding out. I’d 
hoped to never encounter that kind of magic again. No such luck.
“Our client has a patch of Hunger Grass in her front yard,” I said, glancing at Jinx. “You 
know what that means.”
She did. Jinx went pale, eyes widening.
“Oh shit,” she said.
Oh shit was right. Hunger Grass was extremely dangerous. Most faerie magic is. But it 
takes more than just magic to create the slavering circle of weeds.
Something bad happened here, really bad. Like famine or a hard Maine winter driving a 
family to cannibalism bad.
“You think there are actually ghosts in there?” she said. I had to hand it to my partner. 
Her face was ashen, but she didn’t run away. “The ghosts of eaten people.”
“I don’t know,” I said, squaring my shoulders. “But we're going to find out.”
 The crunch of gravel beneath my boots punctuated my words and I tried not to think 
about trudging over bones picked clean of flesh. I barely twitched when Jinx rapped on the door, 
announcing our arrival.
We didn’t have to wait long. The door swung open and Maggie stood there, eyes 
appearing sunken in the dim light. Had she touched the Hunger Grass? Was she infected with its 
magic?
“Please, come in,” she said. “I’ll be in the kitchen if you need anything. Don’t leave 
without coming back for tea. The kettle’s almost ready.”
I stepped inside the house, a polite refusal on my lips, but gasped. The shabby living 
room fell away, revealing a horror so great I was at a loss for words.
This is not at all what I expected.
“What do you see?” Jinx asked, sidling up to me as our host passed through what I 
assumed was the kitchen door. “Looks normal enough.”
“You don’t want to know,” I said, swallowing bile.
The walls were slabs of pulsating meat and the floor was sticky beneath my combat 
boots. I winced at the moist fetid air that hung heavy with the distinctive stench of a 
slaughterhouse. Fear and blood permeated every fleshy crevice, but over the underlying terror 
loomed a hunger that threatened to devour us whole.
“Jinx, go outside,” I said, voice hard.
“Outside with the creeptastic Hunger Grass?” she asked.
She had a point.
“Fine, but keep close to me,” I said, lowering my voice. “Stay away from the walls and 
don’t touch anything. Assume that nothing in this house is what it seems.”
“That’s not very reassuring,” she muttered.
“Good,” I said, palming my knife. “If you’re scared, we might just get out of this alive.”
“What about Maggie?” Jinx asked.
A tapping came from the kitchen, and I stilled. Tap, tap-tap, tap. There was an agonizing 
pause before the tapping began anew. As much as I’d love to run screaming from this bizarre 
charnel house, we had a case to solve and a client to rescue.
“We’re going to accept that cup of tea and find out what the hell is going on in this 
house,” I said.
“And if it’s a trap?” she whispered.
“We’ll cross that bridge when we come to it,” I said.
I just hoped that if we did encounter a bridge, it wasn’t made of oozing muscle tissue.
On my signal, Jinx pushed open the kitchen door. At least, she swore it was a wooden 
door. If we made it out of here alive, I’d need a gallon of brain bleach to scrub that orifice from 
memory.
I gasped, staggering forward, but abruptly froze as my eyes darted back and forth from 
Maggie to the corpse wearing her clothes. Corpse might be too kind a word. The body was 
missing parts and had been gnawed on by more than rats.
That wasn’t the scariest thing in the room, not by a long shot.
I’d located the source of the tapping. Two children huddled on the floor, their knobby 
knees and the jut of their collar bones painful to witness. They leaned into each other in a one-
armed embrace, teeth chattering against a cold I couldn’t feel.
“You can see them, can’t you?” Maggie asked, voice hopeful and eyes pleading.
“She doesn’t mean the bones on the floor, does she?” Jinx whispered from where she 
stood at my back.
“No, Jinx,” I said. “But those bones are important. I’d put money on it.”
In fact, the corpse huddled around the children’s tiny forms, giving them comfort, even in 
death.
“Can you help them?” Maggie asked.
I glanced from Maggie to the body on the floor, and took a deep breath. I lifted my eyes 
to the children, turning my head to use the full strength of my second sight. The children 
flickered, but I caught a glimpse of rows of needle-like teeth, too many teeth for their gaunt 
faces.
Tap, tap-tap, tap. The chattering continued, and I winced.
“What...what did you do?” I asked.
“What any good mother would do, or so I thought,” she said. “I eased their suffering. I 
kept them alive. I didn’t know what would happen to them.”
I was going to ask what she meant, but my mind finally caught up with what my eyes 
were seeing. They didn’t have mouths ringed red and sticky from berry preserves and the 
youngest wasn’t holding a doll to her chest. The little girl stroked a clump of her mother’s hair.
“You were starving,” I said.
Maggie nodded, eyes never leaving her children.
“They were excited for the snow, at first,” she said. “It came late that year, but it more 
than made up for its tardiness. The winter was never-ending. And for them, it never will end. Not 
without your help.”
“What can I do?” I asked.
“Tell them that they are good children,” she said. “They did what they were told. They 
mustn’t suffer for my evil act.”
I frowned, but stepped forward and crouched down, careful not to touch the body at my 
feet. Being cannibalized was one vision I sure as hell didn’t want to get sucked into.
“Ivy, what are you doing?” Jinx hissed.
What was I doing? I looked at the children, using my second sight to see every detail. 
Their teeth wasn’t the only unnatural anomaly. Vein-like tendrils connected the children to the 
fleshy cabinets and gelatinous floor.
“Maggie’s children are tethered here,” I said, replying to Jinx.
I glanced up at Maggie, searching her face for clues. Her eyes were wide, but she leaned 
forward.
“Is that why they couldn’t move on?” she asked. “Can you...?”
“I’m no expert,” I said, cutting her off. “But from what I see, this house is feeding on the 
children’s suffering. If I’m right, it might not like us removing its food supply.”
“Is this a bad time to mention I’m not really dressed to battle a haunted house that feeds 
on the suffering of dead kids?” Jinx asked.
“Wishing you’d taken your chances with the Hunger Grass?” I asked.
“Hell, yes,” she said. “But you’re not leaving, are you?”
“Hell, no,” I said.
“Fine, but, for the record, I’m totally cool with you losing your weirdo street cred,” she 
said.
“What happened to the stranger the better?” I asked.
“Our client is dead, the house is alive, and there’s grass in the yard with the ability to 
create ravenous wendigos,” she said. “That’s what happened.”
I’d been watching the children while Jinx rambled. They didn’t respond to Maggie or 
Jinx, but I could have sworn their eyes slid to me more than once. Maybe my second sight 
allowed some creatures to see me more clearly.
“My name is Ivy Granger,” I said. “What’s yours?”
They didn’t reply, but both children turned their heads my way, unblinking. A low 
growling rose from their stomachs, and they stared at me with a feral gleam in their eyes. At least 
I had their attention.
Fear slithered along my spine and my glance darted around the room. Did Maggie invite 
us here to bring her children peace or dinner? I had to try to rescue the kids no matter my client’s 
motives.
“I’m a friend of your mom’s,” I said.
Walls spasmed and red tears ran in rivulets down the children’s cheeks.
“Ivy, did you feel that?” Jinx asked.
“Stay there and don’t move unless I say so,” I said.
Predators chase their prey. And these two stopped being innocent children long ago.
“Your mom is here and she loves you very much,” I said. “You’ve been very good, but 
she needs you to do one more very hard thing.”
“B-b-bad,” the boy said.
“No, you’re not,” I said.
“H-h-hungry,” the little girl moaned.
“You don’t have to ever be hungry again,” I said. “You can move on and be with your 
mom again.”
I had no idea if what I said was true, but words have a magic of their own and there were 
strong energies in this house.
I tapped into my own sense of emptiness at losing a parent, a hole in the pit of my 
stomach and an ache in my chest that would never go away. I channeled a child’s yearning for 
their parents and told the ghost children what they needed to hear.
They were good. They were loved. They were going home.
 The more I talked the more convinced I was that I could save them. And just like that, a 
door opened and the children turned to face my client.
“Mommy?”
“Take my hand,” Maggie said, reaching for her children. “We’re going home.”
The room shuddered, and Jinx lost her balance, but I kept my eyes on the children and the 
veins that tethered them to the house.
“We were bad,” the girl said.
“No, my beautiful precious boy and girl,” Maggie said. “You did exactly what your 
foolish mother asked of you. Can you forgive me?”
They ran to her, and as they reached the end of their fleshy chains, I sliced the veins with 
my blade. The knife was silver-tipped iron and sprinkled with holy water. I had no idea what the 
house was, but the veins blackened and withered, retracting with lightning speed.
Maggie mouthed “thank you” over the children’s heads and stepped through the glowing 
door.
I heard her voice through the light, calling out in a cheerful voice.
“Come on, Fluffy,” she said. “Time to go home.”
Something brushed my leg and purring filled my ears. Then it moved away and the door 
snapped shut.
My ears popped and Jinx frowned.
“Was that a cat?” she asked.
I blinked away tears.
“I don’t know, but I don’t think we’ll be getting paid for this job,” I said.
Jinx looked around the dusty kitchen and groaned. The house was once again a mundane 
structure, the only oddities were the three bodies resting in each other’s arms.
“We’re never going to see a dime,” Jinx said, staggering to the door.
The light was painfully bright, but I tilted my head to the sky and shrugged.
It’s hard to pay the bills when you’re dead. But if you die in a city filled with random 
faerie magic and have Ivy Granger on the case, you sure as Hell can settle your debts.
Did you enjoy Frostbite?
If you enjoyed this short story and would like to read more from the Ivy Granger series, 
please write a review.  Writing a review is one of the best ways that you can show your support 
for the book, series, and author.
Thank you.
Ivy Granger Psychic Detective Box Set (Books 1-3, Bonus Prequel)
Want to read more of Ivy’s adventures?
The Ivy Granger Psychic Detective Box Set includes the novels SHADOW SIGHT, GHOST 
LIGHT, and BURNING BRIGHT for one low price.
Demons, ghosts, vampires, and necromancers—Ivy dodges the city's deadliest villains while 
solving its darkest cases. Will she save the day or die trying?
Order now to keep reading the Ivy Granger series.
Don’t miss these books set in the world of Ivy Granger.
Ivy Ganger, Psychic Detective Series
Shadow Sight
Welcome to Harborsmouth, where monsters walk the streets unseen by humans...except those 
with second sight, like Ivy Granger.
Blood and Mistletoe: An Ivy Granger Novella
Holidays are worse than a full moon for making people crazy. In Harborsmouth, where many of 
the residents are undead vampires or monstrous fae, the combination may prove deadly.
Ghost Light
Ivy Granger is back, gathering clues in the darkest shadows of downtown Harborsmouth. With a 
vengeful lamia on the city streets, reports of specters walking Harborsmouth cemeteries, and an 
angry mob of faerie clients at her office door, it's bound to be a long night.
Club Nexus: An Ivy Granger Novella
A demon, an Unseelie faerie, a human, and a vampire walk into a bar...
Burning Bright
Burning down the house...
Birthright
Being a faerie princess isn't all it's cracked up to be...
Hound’s Bite
Ivy Granger thought she left the worst of Mab's creations behind when she escaped Faerie. She 
thought wrong.
Tales from Harborsmouth
A collection of Ivy Granger short stories and novellas.
Hunters’ Guild Series
Hunting in Bruges
The only thing worse than being a Hunter in the fae-ridden city of Harborsmouth, is hunting 
vampires in Bruges.
Coming soon to the world of Ivy Granger
Blood Rite
Ivy Granger psychic detective takes on a simple grave robbing case, but in Harborsmouth 
nothing is ever simple when dealing with the dead.
Warning: This book features grave robbing, an abandoned amusement park, necromancy, and 
zombie clowns.
Watertight
When Torn is accused of murdering a local mermaid, Ivy Granger is plunged into the deep end 
of water fae politics.
With her psychic gifts and newfound wisp powers, locating Torn’s alibi should be simple. Too 
bad a deadly enemy with a score to settle is lurking in Harborsmouth's darkest waters.
Ivy Granger might be in over her head. Even with the help of her kelpie king fiance, Ivy only has 
until the next high tide to prove Torn's innocence. With the clock counting down and the bodies 
piling up, Ivy better hope she finds an alibi that’s watertight.
Dressed in White
Something old, something new, something borrowed, and something blue...
On the eve of Jinx and Ivy's double wedding, a sinister figure is terrorizing Harborsmouth.
When reports of a homicidal jilted bride threaten their wedding plans, Ivy and Forneus set out to 
put a stop to the string of heinous acts. What they discover might just send the faerie and demon 
straight to Hell, and set Ivy on a path to rectify more than one evil deed.
Will Ivy tie the knot with her kelpie king, or will she be saying “I do” to the king of Hell? Her 
father's curse is on the line, and lives hang in the balance. No pressure.
Also by E.J. Stevens
Ivy Granger, Psychic Detective
Urban Fantasy Series
Shadow Sight
Blood and Mistletoe
Ghost Light
Club Nexus
Burning Bright
Birthright
Hound’s Bite
Tales from Harborsmouth
Ivy Granger Psychic Detective Box Set is Now Available.
Hunters’ Guild
Urban Fantasy Series
Hunting in Bruges
Spirit Guide
Young Adult Series
She Smells the Dead
Spirit Storm
Legend of Witchtrot Road
Brush with Death
The Pirate Curse
Spirit Guide: The Complete Series is Now Available.
Dark Poetry Collections
From the Shadows
Shadows of Myth and Legend
Ebooks, Trade Paperbacks, Audiobooks
Ivy Granger Psychic Detective novels and novellas are available in ebook, trade paperback, and 
audio.
Visit EJStevensAuthor.com to listen to free audiobook samples, interviews with the narrators, 
and more.
Get Lost in Translations
Ivy Granger books are available worldwide in multiple languages.
Visit EJStevensAuthor.com to learn more and get lost in translations.
Freebies
Visit the Freebies Page at EJStevensAuthor.com for free audiobook samples, Ivy Granger 
ringtones, wallpapers, and more!
Want a free book and access to ARCs, exclusive news, and giveaways?
Sign up for E.J.’s newsletter.
About the Author
E.J. Stevens is the bestselling, award-winning author of the IVY GRANGER, PSYCHIC 
DETECTIVE urban fantasy series, the SPIRIT GUIDE young adult series, the HUNTERS' 
GUILD urban fantasy series, and the upcoming WHITECHAPEL PARANORMAL SOCIETY 
Victorian Gothic horror series. She is known for filling pages with quirky characters, 
bloodsucking vampires, psychotic faeries, and snarky, kick-butt heroines. Her novels are 
available worldwide in multiple languages.
BTS Red Carpet Award winner for Best Novel, Raven Award finalist for Best Urban Fantasy, 
SYAE finalist for Best Paranormal Series, Best Novella, and Best Horror, winner of the PRG 
Reviewer's Choice Award for Best Paranormal Fantasy Novel, Best Young Adult Paranormal 
Series, Best Urban Fantasy Novel, and finalist for Best Young Adult Paranormal Novel and Best 
Urban Fantasy Series.
When E.J. isn't at her writing desk, she enjoys dancing along seaside cliffs, singing in 
graveyards, and sleeping in faerie circles. E.J. currently resides in a magical forest on the coast of 
Maine where she finds daily inspiration for her writing.
Connect with E.J. on her Blog, Pinterest, Facebook, and Twitter.
Get fabulous freebies and stay connected at www.EJStevensAuthor.com.
Never miss a book release, giveaway, or a chance to hang out with E.J. Stevens at a live event.
Sign up for E.J. Stevens’ Newsletter for exciting monthly news and reader exclusives!
Follow E.J. Stevens on BookBub and be the first to know about book launches and limited-time 
discounts. <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
HUNT
A Shifters Short Story
By
R V
achel  incent
Text copyright © 2014 by Rachel Vincent. 
Cover art copyright © 2014 by Killswitch Media
Distributed by Smashwords
All rights reserved. Except for use in any review, the reproduction or utilization of this work in 
whole or in part in any form by any electronic, mechanical or other means, now known or 
hereafter invented, including xerography, photocopying and recording, or in any information 
storage or retrieval system, is forbidden without the written permission of the author, Rachel 
Vincent.
This is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places and incidents are either the product of the 
author’s imagination or are used fictitiously and any resemblance to actual persons living or 
dead, business establishments, events or locals is entirely coincidental. 
Rachelvincent.com
To my husband—my number one fan, my other half,
and my partner in this first independent project.
T
he forest was singing, and its song was all mine. The others, with their human ears, 
heard only the crackle of the campfire and their own voices. Huddled in down jackets and 
sleeping bags, they thought they owned the world by virtue of their ability to tame it, and that 
was an understandable mistake. But they’d never really seen the forest. Not like I saw it. 
They couldn’t feel it like I felt it either, poking at my paws with sticks and thorns. 
Blowing through my fur with the scents of pine, and ash, and warm, plump rodent. Winding 
through my soul, with the knowledge that I was but part of a whole, a single predator serving 
nature as surely as it served me. 
Soon I’d have to go back to the campfire. To my friends’ idea of “roughing it” with 
battery powered radios, canned food, and no-rinse bathing wipes, guaranteed to keep you fresh 
even days into a showerless camping trip. Soon I’d have to put on my human skin so I could be 
Abby Wade, normal college sophomore. I’d been hiding the feline half of my life for a year and 
a half, and my secret forest run was just a temporary reprieve from all things human.
Still, the next few moments were mine.
My paws snapped through twigs and sank into underbrush, pushing against the earth to 
propel me faster, higher. I was a streak of black against the night, darker than the forest, yet a 
part of it, as I hadn’t been in weeks. Small animals fled ahead of my paws, scurrying through 
tangles of fallen leaves and branches. The scents of oak, birch, maple, and pine were familiar 
comforts, relaxing me even as they pushed me for more speed, greater distance. Thorns caught in 
my fur. Cold air burned in my nose and stroked the length of my body as I ran, like a caress from 
the universe itself.
I was welcome in the woods. I belonged there, as I’d never truly belonged anywhere else.
When I’d been gone as long as I could stay away without worrying the others, I slowed to 
a gradual stop, huffing from exertion. It was time for a snack, to replace the energy I’d burned 
during my shift.
My ears swiveled on my head, pinpointing the telltale sounds of prey. Werecats can’t 
track by scent, like a dog, so we hunt with our ears and our eyes. On my run, I’d smelled mice 
and a couple of weasels, both of which stay active in the winter, but I was holding out for a 
rabbit, or even a beaver. No use wasting a deer with only me there to feed on it. 
Something scuttled through the underbrush several yards to the southeast, too fast and 
light to be raccoon. Probably a mouse or a rat. Too much effort for too little meat.
I slowed my breathing and listened harder. From the north came a soft, rapid swooshy 
heartbeat, but no movement. Whatever it was, it knew I was close and hungry. I turned my head 
and sniffed toward the north—I could pinpoint prey with my ears, but could only ID it with my 
nose, which told me I was hunting rabbit. Perfect. Its fur wouldn’t be white yet—not in mid-
October—but my feline eyes would have no trouble distinguishing it from its surroundings.
I pounced. The rabbit sprang from the underbrush and landed three feet away. I caught a 
glimpse of brown and white fur, then it was off again, racing through the woods and vaulting 
over low shrubs and fallen logs.
I ran after it at half speed, reluctant to end the chase too soon—who knew when I’d have 
another chance to hunt? But seconds later, a scream shattered the cold, quiet night with a sharp 
echo of pain and terror.
A sudden spike of fear froze me where I stood. I knew that scream—that voice. Robyn. 
My roommate of more than three years, and for the next three nights, my tent-mate.
No! 
I turned and raced through the woods toward the campsite, my lungs burning, my heart 
trying to beat its way through my sternum. I had no plan, no thought beyond simply getting 
there, and only the vaguest understanding that if I burst into the camp in cat form, I’d scare her 
far worse than whatever had made her scream.
But I’d only gone a few yards when a second scream split the night again, followed by 
two deeper, masculine shouts of fear and pain. 
I pushed myself harder, my brain racing through the possibilities. Bear? There’d been no 
growling or roaring, and I hadn’t smelled anything even slightly ursine. Besides, black bears 
typically shy away from humans. As do bruins, though to my knowledge, no one had ever 
spotted a bear Shifter in the heart of the Appalachian Territory.
So what the hell was happening? 
I flew through the forest, retracing my own path with no thought for the living buffet 
scurrying all around me. The screaming continued, and I heard terror from Robyn and Dani, but 
sheer agony from their boyfriends. I’d seen a friend murdered once, which was how I knew 
exactly what I was hearing in that moment—my friends were being slaughtered.
My clothes hung on branches ahead, but I raced past them. The screaming was louder 
now, but there were fewer voices. Dani’s boyfriend Mitch had gone silent. I was too late to help 
him, and before I’d gone another few yards, Olsen’s screaming ended in a horrible, inarticulate 
gurgle. 
My lungs burned and my legs ached—werecats are sprinters, not long-distance runners—
but I pushed forward, demanding more from my body than I’d ever had reason to expect from it. 
This couldn’t be real. Werecat strays were always slugging it out in territorial disputes 
and dominance challenges, but the most dangerous thing I’d ever encountered in the 
human/college world was my Chemistry professor’s hardline no-late-work policy.
Robyn’s screams intensified with her boyfriend’s silence, then suddenly stopped, and for 
a moment, my heart refused to beat. Not Robyn. I couldn’t lose my roommate of more than a 
year and the best friend I had in the human world. The girl who left her toothpaste open on the 
bathroom counter and made me hot chocolate in the middle of the night, when nightmares woke 
me up. 
Then in the sudden quiet, the forest produced a new voice, and my next steps were fueled 
by simultaneous terror and relief.
“…mouth shut, bitch, or I’ll slice you wide open. Her too.”
Robyn and Dani were alive—so far, anyway. But who the hell was with them?
I’d gone a few more steps when the smell of blood rolled across the forest floor like an 
olfactory fog, overwhelming my senses and shredding my heart. The sheer strength of the scent 
was horrifying, and the thought of how much Mitch and Olsen must have lost made me sick to 
my stomach.
I slowed as I approached the campsite and logic and caution finally overcame the terror 
that had propelled my dash through the woods. There was nothing I could do for the guys, and 
I’d be no good to the girls if I burst into the clearing and got shot by some psycho, backwoods 
hunter. So I snuck the last thirty feet or so, silent and virtually invisible in the dark, as only a 
werecat can be.
Flames flickered through a tangle of branches; the campfire still burned bright. Blinking, 
I edged forward slowly, mostly hidden by a thick, fat bush. I saw Olsen first and had to swallow 
the traumatized whine sliding up from my throat. He lay on his back in the clearing, his shadow 
twitching on the ground with every lick of the orange flames. His blue eyes were open, his 
mouth slack. His coat was unzipped, his shirt completely drenched in blood, which now soaked 
into the ground beneath him. 
He’d been gutted.
Mitch lay in the same position, a quarter of the way around the campfire, his face forever 
frozen in a grimace of agony. His stomach and chest had been sliced up the middle, but unlike 
Olsen’s, Mitch’s coat and shirt had been spread open, showcasing the full extent of the damage. 
So the girls would know the same thing could happen to them.
The wound was long, and deep, and straight. The weapon could only be a blade, wielded 
by a human hand. This was not shifter violence.
Nausea rolled over me for the first time ever, in cat form. I’d seen a lot of slaughtered 
deer in the seven years since my first shift, at age thirteen. I’d even brought down a couple 
myself. But these weren’t deer. They were friends.
My vision blurred until I couldn’t keep Mitch’s body in focus, yet when I glanced away, 
visual clarity returned, as if my brain didn’t want to interpret the images of carnage my eyes 
were sending. 
I blinked and forced the slaughter back into focus. If I couldn’t even look at the corpses, 
how could I hope to save Robyn and Dani?
Maybe I couldn’t. I wasn’t a cop. I wasn’t even an enforcer. My summer training sessions 
with Faythe had included neither rescue missions nor hostage negotiation. But I had to try. I was 
all they had.
My roommate and her best friend knelt on the ground on the other side of the fire, and 
watching them through the flames sent chills through me. As if I were already seeing them die. 
They cried and huddled together, alternately staring at their butchered boyfriends and cringing up 
at their captors.
Three men stood with their backs to me, each dressed in hunter’s camouflage. Two of 
them held hunting knives, still dripping blood onto the packed dirt. They were human, based on 
both their scent and their weapons, yet every bit as monstrous as the cruelest shifters I’d ever 
met. 
One of them smelled vaguely familiar, though I couldn’t quite place his scent.
I backed carefully away from the bush concealing me and began to circle the clearing 
slowly and silently. I’d have to be within pouncing distance before I made my move. 
“Where is she?” the man in the middle demanded, and my heart actually skipped a beat. 
Did he mean me? Had they been watching us? Or had they simply seen five hiking packs and 
deduced an absence? 
“Where’s who?” Robyn said through chattering teeth, loyal to a fault. She would keep me 
out of this, even if it cost her last breath. But I couldn’t let that happen. They were scared and 
defenseless against men with knives, and I remembered being scared and defenseless. I 
remembered way too well…
The man in the middle backhanded her, and Robyn fell over sideways, unable to right 
herself with her hands taped together in her lap. It took all of my self-control to hold in the growl 
itching at the back of my throat as I rounded the halfway point of the clearing. Drawing attention 
to myself before I was ready to fight would get us all killed. That was one of the first things 
Faythe had taught me.
The tallest of the men hauled Robyn upright by one arm as I continued to circle silently, 
aching inside while she cried. “We know Abby was with you,” he said, and I froze mid-step. I 
recognized that voice. A few more feet, and my eyes confirmed what my ears already knew. 
Steve… something. He’d transferred into my psych class a week into the semester and 
had sat in the chair behind me ever since, trying to make conversation while I nodded and 
pretended to be absorbed in my notes.
What the hell was going on? Had he followed us? 
“Where’d she go?” the second man demanded, and I noticed as I edged along the clearing 
that the contents of both tents had been dumped in a pile about three feet from the campfire, 
including my sleeping bag and purse. Was this a robbery, or were they actually looking for me? 
Neither possibility made much sense—I hardly knew Steve and had never even met his 
accomplices, and how much cash could they possibly hope to score from a campsite?
The third man stepped forward, silently threatening Robyn and Dani with the knife when 
no one answered. My blood boiled, even as fear spiked my veins with a rush of adrenalin. 
Tears poured down Robyn’s cheeks, but Dani answered, staring at the blade now inches 
from her throat. “She went for a hike!”
“In the dark?” Steve crossed bulky arms over a bulkier chest, the tip of his knife tapping 
against the waist of his thick camo pants.
Dani shrugged, and I saw a spark of the stubborn defiance that made her fun to debate—
and might soon get her killed. “She likes nature.”
“And she took a flashlight,” Robyn added, shaking violently, either from the cold or from 
shock. “Please, you can have anything you want. My purse is over there.” She nodded toward the 
pile of supplies. “Just take it and let us go.”
“Oh come on, this is a party!” Steve glanced at his friends with a look of anticipation that 
chilled my blood. “But we’re one girl shy. You have her number?” Robyn nodded slowly, and 
Steve glanced at the third man. “Tim, give her a call.”
I’d circled to within feet of my roommate by the time Tim—shorter and thicker than 
Steve—hauled Robyn to her feet. She whimpered when his hand slid into the front pocket of her 
jeans, and fresh tears rolled down her face. My claws curled into the underbrush, itching to rip 
through his flesh instead.
I watched Robyn and Tim, waiting for my opportunity to pounce, but in my head, I saw 
something else. Another man. Another place. A bruising grip on my own arm. A cruel, 
unwelcome hand, followed by pain, and screaming, and humiliation.
The bastard leered at Robyn until she closed her eyes, then he shoved her down again and 
slid one finger across the screen of her phone to wake it up. He was already scrolling through the 
contacts list by the time she hit the ground. Tim pressed a couple of buttons, then held the phone 
to his ear, and they all waited.
But I already knew what would happen, and sure enough, my phone rang from inside my 
purse on the edge of the pile of sleeping bags and hiking packs. 
“Damn it!” Steve kicked my purse across the clearing without bothering to open it, as his 
dark-haired accomplice ended the call from Robyn’s phone.
I’d left my phone in my purse because my feline form suffered an obvious and 
bothersome lack of pockets.
“Fine,” Steve said at last, having resigned himself to the inconvenient conclusion. “She’ll 
come back—where else could she go?” He shrugged. “We’ll just start the party without her.”
No… I recognized that tone. That slimy, hungry grin. I knew what would happen next, if I 
didn’t stop it.
Tim dragged Robyn away from Dani and closer to me. Robyn screamed and kicked, 
trying to twist free, but none of it fazed him. He dropped her on the ground and her head hit a 
fallen tree branch. Robyn moaned, dazed, and I could practically see the fight drain out of her.
“Get off her!” Dani shouted, struggling to get to her feet without the use of her hands. 
Her cheeks were dry and scarlet, fury eclipsing her fear, at least for the moment. She would fight 
them. And that would get her killed.
The third man glanced at Steve, brows raised, silently asking for permission. He hadn’t 
said a word so far, but his clenched fists spoke volumes. 
Steve nodded and tossed an openhanded gesture toward Dani. “She’s all yours, Billy. I’m 
holdin’ out for the little redhead.”
Me of course. 
Wouldn’t he be surprised to see me sporting black fur and claws instead of my usual 
mass of curls? One hundred and four pounds was only a scrap of a woman, but added up to one 
hell of cat. Not that he’d ever know it was me.
Billy shoved Dani down, then kicked her in the ribs before she could roll away. My 
sharp, feline ears heard bones crack, and I cringed. Dani’s shout became a scream of pain, then 
he dropped on top of her, his huge, bloody hunting knife pressed into her throat. “One more 
sound, and I’ll cut your fucking head off.”
Silent tears rolled down Dani’s face, and each breath was a pained gasp. Her eyes closed 
and her head rolled to one side as he fumbled at the waistband of her jeans, and suddenly I 
couldn’t move. 
Bars. Tears. Pain. Blood. Terror.
No, that was all over. All but the fear. It had been more than four years, yet the terror was 
suddenly back like a razor-tipped Boom-a-rang. My heart beat too hard. The whole world began 
to go gray beneath memories of my own helplessness and humiliation.
No! This can’t be happening… Not again. Not in the human world. Not while I cower in 
the bushes.
Run! the voice inside my head shouted, as each breath slipped from my throat faster than 
the last. They’ll do the same thing to you if they find you. You can’t survive it again.
But that was a lie told by the scared little girl still huddling in a dark corner of my mind. 
I’d grown up. I’d moved on. I’d learned to fight. True, my skills were unproven, but they were 
real, and they were a game changer. Beyond all of that, I was in cat form. They’d never 
recognize the Abby they were looking for in my current configuration of flesh and bone—and 
fur.
I could survive this. I could prevent this. I could end those men.
“No!” Robyn screamed, trying to shove Tim off with her bound hands. “Don’t, please!”
That was all I could take.
I leapt out of the bushes, fury pulsing through my veins hotter than blood. A growl 
rumbled from my throat and rolled across the clearing. I slammed into Tim’s side, knocking him 
off Robyn and onto the ground. My front paws pinned him to the dirt. 
Around me, everyone froze. For one long second, no one even breathed, and several 
hearts actually skipped beats. Then Robyn took a single, shaky breath and began edging away 
from us slowly, pushing herself with her feet because her hands were still tied. She was clearly 
as scared of me as she was of him, and terror had now driven comprehension from her eyes. For 
the moment at least, Robyn had checked out.
Beneath my front paws, Tim was sweating in spite of the cold, and his scent was part 
fear, part adrenaline. But not enough fear. I leaned closer, and the aggressive huff of breath from 
my nose blew his dark hair back. I sank my claws through his thick camo jacket and into flesh. 
He flinched and when his mouth dropped open in surprise, I saw blood staining his teeth.
I sniffed while he shook in terror beneath me. The blood was Robyn’s. The bastard had 
bitten her.
The entire world bled to red. I lunged, and the next few seconds were a series of 
unfocused, disconnected sensations. My teeth sank through something firm and warm. Tim 
jerked beneath me. I tossed my head, and flesh tore with a satisfying ripping sensation. Warm, 
fragrant blood sprayed my face, my shoulders. The form beneath me jerked one last time, then 
lay still.
Someone screamed.
I backed away from the body, cleaning my muzzle out of long-term hunting habit, and 
looked up to find Robyn huddled against the side of the nearest tent, shrieking uncontrollably. 
Her jacket lay on the ground to her left and she clutched the remains of her torn shirt to her chest, 
but the bloody bite mark on her right shoulder was exposed. 
Without thinking, I stepped toward her, confused by my simultaneous human need to 
comfort her and my feline inclination to first clean the fresh blood from my fur. 
Robyn’s screams rose into hoarse hysterics as I approached, so I stopped, physically 
shaking myself to clear my head. To fend off encroaching bloodlust and cling to my ill-fitting 
human logic. She was bitten, but otherwise unharmed. She’d be fine, physically. 
I turned away from Robyn, forcing myself to ignore that small part of me that wanted to 
chase her, simply because she wanted to run. My roommate wasn’t prey. But the men who’d hurt 
her were.
Steve stood where I’d left him, his back to the fire, his white-knuckled fist still clenching 
a bloody knife. He watched me carefully, steadily, blade held ready, and again I saw too little 
fear to suit me, and nowhere near enough shock. He’d have to be either foolish or insane to 
openly challenge a giant cat, and frankly, I was hoping he was both.
I growled, and for one surreal moment, I wondered if he could see the other me peeking 
through my greenish cat eyes. The human me, who’d once suffered what he and his friends had 
tried to deal out. That Abby couldn’t fight back, but this Abby could. And would.
Steve’s blood whooshed rapidly through his veins. His eyes were bright and glossy with 
exhilaration. His arm tensed. He raised the knife for a strike, but I saw it coming because he 
wore his intent like a badge of stupidity pinned right to his shirt.
I swatted the blade from his hand with my front paw, and my blow swung him around. 
He went down a foot from the campfire, but was up in an instant. 
“Good kitty…” he whispered, his voice low and steady, both hands spread in a defensive 
posture as I growled. He glanced over my head, and a sudden scuffle at my back made my fur 
stand on end. I leapt to the side, but was too late to completely avoid the blow. Billy’s huge knife 
slashed across my front right leg, several inches from my shoulder.
I hissed, and suddenly the blood-scent on the air had a new flavor. My flavor.
Dani scooted away from Billy. I took a step forward, trying to drive the men closer 
together, where I could see them both, but my injured leg half-collapsed beneath me. I couldn’t 
walk on it. Not for long anyway.
Steve noticed the limp, and I could see him assessing his chances. He had a real shot at 
survival now, and he knew it. He backed slowly toward the tent and hauled Robyn up by one 
arm. She screamed again. I limped forward, hissing, but before I could pounce, he glanced 
behind me, at Billy.
“We can’t bring them both,” he said. “Do her.”
“No!” Dani shouted, and her shuffling grew frantic. She understood before I did.
I whirled to see him haul Dani up by one arm. She dug her heels into the dirt, trying to 
pull free. I stepped toward them, and my leg folded again. Billy shoved his knife into her 
stomach and dragged it through her flesh toward her sternum. Dani’s eyes went wide, and her 
mouth fell open. I roared in grief and outrage. He let go, and she collapsed onto the dirt, blood 
pouring from the gaping hole in her torso.
“Stay, kitty…” Steve said, slowly pulling Robyn toward the woods. Terrified and 
sobbing, Robyn glanced from me to Dani, then to Billy, whose bloody knife glinted in the 
firelight. But she didn’t fight his grip this time. She knew better. 
Billy circled me slowly, leaving plenty of room between us. He held his knife ready, and 
though I growled the whole time, I didn’t pounce again. And he didn’t expect me to. A natural-
born cat—they probably thought I was a melanistic jaguar—would never chase three healthy 
humans into the woods on an injured leg, when there were three fresh bodies to eat right there in 
the clearing. And there would soon be a fourth.
Dani was still breathing, but she wouldn’t be for long, and I couldn’t let her die alone. 
Especially since I couldn’t reasonably rescue Robyn. Not in cat form, when I couldn’t put weight 
on my injured front leg.
Steve backed into the trees, pulling a shocked and sobbing Robyn with him, her face 
streaked with tears, her shirt streaked with blood. Billy stepped slowly out of the clearing on his 
side of the fire, and moments later, I heard him clomping through the underbrush toward Steve 
and Robyn. Then they headed through the woods together. 
The last thing I heard before their footsteps faded from even my sensitive cat hearing was 
Billy’s whispered question, and Steve’s even softer reply.
“So, we’re just giving up on Abby?”
“No way. We’ll regroup at the cabin.”
I huffed softly through my nose as I limped toward Dani. There was a cabin. And they 
were obviously expecting me—the human me, the only one they knew—to return to the camp 
site. But why would they expect a girl they assumed to be helpless to return to the scene of a 
blood bath? Did they think I hadn’t heard my friends screaming? Was human hearing really that 
bad?
Regardless, if they were planning to come back for me, the cabin must be close. I could 
track them. I could get Robyn back. But not until Dani was gone. And not until I’d made a phone 
call. 
Triple homicide in a werecat territory, involving a werecat tabby, was definitely a notify-
your-local Alpha situation.
Even mortally wounded, Dani tried to scoot away from me as I approached. She was 
dying, and she knew it—I could see mortality gleaming in her eyes, along with reflected flames 
from the campfire—but she wasn’t eager to speed up the process by being eaten alive. And she 
had no reason to think I wouldn’t do just that.
I dropped my head as I limped forward, whining softly, trying to look unthreatening. To 
show submissiveness and concern. But she didn’t stop struggling until I dropped onto the cold 
ground beside her and laid my chin on her leg. 
“Wha—?” But she lacked the strength to finish even that one word. Her heartbeat had 
already begun to slow, and her chest was rattling. I didn’t want to leave her, but I couldn’t afford 
to let Robyn get too far away. And I still had to make that call. So I licked the back of her left 
hand—still bound to its mate—then scooted away from her to begin my Shift. And for the first 
time in my life, it didn’t matter that a human was about to witness the entire process.
My injured leg bent to spare it, I stood three feet from the fire, and its warmth was my 
only comfort in the face of grief, fear, and ever-deepening rage. The last time my life had been in 
danger, I’d been too scared to Shift, even for my own safety. Even with Faythe there to talk me 
through it. 
Not this time. This time, the changes came almost too quickly to bear, my Shift fueled by 
an intense need to protect Robyn and avenge my other friends. To unleash justice on men so like 
the ones who’d brought a violent end to my adolescence, robbing me of peace and security for 
years afterward.
My muscles tensed, bunching and stretching as they took on new shapes. My joints 
popped in and out of their sockets as, in my memory, I screamed “No!” over and over, until the 
weight pinning me to the ground stole my breath.
My paws flexed uncontrollably, aching as they stretched and reformed. My claws 
retracted into the tips of my fingers as, in my brutal recollection, I clutched at my clothes, at the 
bars, at the edge of the bare mattress, desperate to make it stop. To hold myself together as long 
as possible.
My muzzle began to shorten, my gums throbbing as my teeth broadened, the feline points 
smoothing into rounded human edges. My jaws ached, as they’d once ached from screaming, 
then from trying not to scream, desperate not to give him the satisfaction. 
My flesh began to itch as my fur receded, and in my mind, my skin burned—scalding 
water from the shower. I’d scrubbed and scrubbed, but couldn’t wash them off. Couldn’t clean 
down to the real me. The me they’d killed in that basement, in the shadow of the bars I still saw 
sometimes when I closed my eyes. 
When my Shift was over, I sat on my bare knees on the frigid ground, panting from 
exertion, crying over old ghosts. If I didn’t hurry, it would happen to Robyn too. The men who 
took her may not have had bars and a basement, but they had knives, and they had no reason to 
let her live.
As soon as I could move again, I crawled over to Dani. Danielle Martin, with her big 
mouth and her kind eyes, who’d invited me to come on their couple’s weekend. Who’d insisted I 
wouldn’t be a fifth wheel. But Dani’s kind eyes were open and empty now, staring into the 
woods. Her bound hands still lay over her stomach, as if she’d tried to hold the blood in until the 
last second. And I’d missed it. She’d died alone, and scared, and in pain. 
Steve and Billy would pay for that. They would pay, and pay, and pay…
Tears ran down my face, scalding my frozen cheeks as I pushed myself to my feet and 
raced across the clearing. The fire was hot, but not hot enough to keep me warm in the nude, yet 
instead of dressing, I dropped to my knees beside the pile of brush my purse had landed in when 
Steve kicked it. 
My teeth chattering, I pulled back the zipper and grabbed my phone, praying it hadn’t 
broken. I pressed the home button, and the screen shined bright in the flickering firelight as I 
scrolled through the “favorites” menu for my Alpha’s number. As I pressed call, I dropped to the 
ground next to the careless pile of our belongings. I’d just spotted my hiking pack beneath the 
portable charcoal grill when my call was answered.
“Abby? What’s wrong?” Normally, his automatic assumption that something was wrong 
would have irritated me. But this time, he was right.
“Jace, I need help. Fast.” My teeth chattered, and I sniffed back a choked sob. “How soon 
can you get here?”
Springs creaked as he stood, and I heard heavy footsteps as he paced. Jace had bulked up 
a bit since he’d taken over the Appalachian Territory. “Where are you? What happened?” 
I hauled my pack from the pile and pulled back the flap, already digging for a change of 
clothes. “I went camping with some friends from school, and now they’re dead. All except 
Robyn, my roommate.”
A single beat of silence passed before he spoke. “Okay, first of all, are you safe where 
you are?” His voice was solid and steady, a vocal cornerstone for me to build on. Like most 
Alphas, Jace dealt with crises all day, every day. Unlike most Alphas, he was young enough that 
he still looked good doing it.
Damn good.
I would have given anything in that moment to be staring at Jace instead of at the bloody 
remains of a human friend.
“I’m fine for the moment, but I don’t have much time.” With the phone pinned between 
my ear and my shoulder, I stood and stepped into my underwear, my teeth chattering so hard I 
could hardly talk.
“Okay, start from the beginning. You went camping…?”
“Yeah. Just a sec.” My shirt was next, and I had to set the phone on the ground to pull the 
material over my head. “We’re in Cherokee National Forest, just south of the Tennessee border.” 
I gave him the coordinates we’d used to find the campsite, forever grateful for GPS technology. 
“I went for a run by myself—the private kind—and when I got back, there were three men at our 
campsite, carrying big hunting knives.” 
“Damn it!” he swore, and I heard as much guilt as I heard anger and concern in his voice. 
The concern was for me. The anger was for whatever suicidal idiot had dared put a member of 
Jace Hammond’s Pride in danger. A female member, at that; I was one of only three in the 
territory, and the only one who wasn’t Jace’s mother or sister. “I knew I should have sent 
someone with you to school.”
“No, you shouldn’t have. Things aren’t like they used to be, Jace.” He and Faythe had 
made sure of that. They’d brought a new youth and strength to the Alpha’s council, and they 
were in the middle of negotiating with an allied group of strays who wanted official recognition 
by the council. “Besides, having me watched wouldn’t have helped. Your enforcers wouldn’t 
have recognized the danger.” Because they would only have been monitoring the area for the 
scent of an intruder—a cat shifter without authorization to be in our territory.
“The aggressors are human?” he asked.
That could be assumed, based on the fact that they carried weapons—no self-respecting 
werecat would need them—but a good Alpha assumed nothing.
“Yeah.” Humans’ movements weren’t restricted by werecat territorial lines, and humans 
were almost never a threat to shifters. Jace’s enforcers wouldn’t have identified the threat until it 
was already too late.
“And you were in cat form?” he continued.
“Yes, but they didn’t know it was me. And I spent most of the time hiding in the bushes.” 
Like a coward. “They’d already gutted Mitch and Olsen by the time I got there, but the girls were 
just tied up, at first.” The quiver in my voice triggered a near-silent exhalation from Jace.
“You sure you’re okay?” He knew what I’d been through more than four years before. 
“Yes, but they killed Danielle, and Jace, they took Robyn. I have to get her back!”
“No,” he said, and I recognized that single syllable as an order. “I understand the 
protective impulse, but you’re the one I have to protect. I want you to stay where you are, and—” 
“I’m not just going to abandon her!” I stood and shook out my insulated cargo pants, 
phone pinned to my shoulder again while I stepped into the fuzzy inner lining. 
“You’re going to do exactly what I—”
“This doesn’t make any sense, Jace,” I said, and his growl at being interrupted normally 
would have frozen me where I stood. “I know one of the men who took her. He sits behind me in 
psych. He’s always been so friendly before, but now he’s crazy.”
I sank onto the cold ground and swallowed another sob, trying to speak slowly and 
clearly, and to give him just the facts. Anything else would only slow me down and put Robyn in 
more danger. 
“Abby, are you okay?” 
“No! They know I’m out here, somewhere. They were going to wait for me until I came 
out in cat form and scared them off. Not that they knew that was me.” I sucked in another deep 
breath. “I don’t know if they followed us from campus or what, but while they were waiting for 
me to come back to camp, they tried to…” 
The words froze in my throat, the edges sharp, as if I’d swallowed glass. I coughed, then 
started over. “The girls were so scared. Robyn was screaming, and she couldn’t stop him. The 
other one held his knife to Dani’s throat. I couldn’t just watch, and I couldn’t leave them 
there…” My explanation trailed into fragile silence, but for the crackle of the fire.
“What did you do, Abby?” Jace still sounded calm, but now his voice held a dark note of 
dread.
“I killed the one who was on Robyn.” My words all ran together, but Jace seemed to 
understand. “I just wanted to get him off her, so I pounced on him, and he smelled like her, and 
he’d bitten her, and everything just went red after that. But then Steve slashed my front leg, and 
the other one stabbed Dani. Then they took off into the woods.” My tears were a mercy, 
smearing the carnage all around me. But they couldn’t blur the overwhelming scent of blood. “I 
couldn’t chase them. Not with my front leg sliced up and Dani dying.”
“You shouldn’t have shown yourself, Abby. You could have been killed.” Jace’s growl 
was a mixture of worry for me and rage on my behalf. “Just stay there. We’re coming to get you, 
and once you’re secure, we’ll make an anonymous call to the cops.” 
I heard voices in the background, as other tomcats volunteered for the emergency 
mission. Save the damsel in distress—what every enforcer lives for.
Only I didn’t have time to be rescued. 
“I can’t stay here, Jace. They’re coming back for me. And I have to get Robyn back 
before they hurt her.”
“No!” A car door slammed and Jace’s engine roared to life. He was already on the go, no 
doubt with his three best enforcers. “Abby, do not chase the bad guys! That’s an order!” 
“They’re gonna kill her!” And by the time they got around to that, she’d be begging for 
death.
“If you go after them, they’ll kill you too.”
“I can handle myself. I’ve been training with Faythe.”
“Sounds like you picked up more than just her left hook,” he muttered, and in the 
background, another tom chuckled. “Faythe’s an Alpha, and before that, she was an enforcer. 
You’re a poli-sci. major with three-summers worth of self-defense lessons. Sit tight. We’ll be 
there in an hour.”
“She’ll be dead by then!” 
“But you won’t be.”
I hesitated. I honestly did, because disobeying an Alpha was serious shit, even if the 
Alpha was young, and hot. But Robyn was the priority. “I’m sorry, Jace,” I whispered, digging 
through my pack again for an extra set of thick socks. “You can kick me out of the Pride if you 
want, but I have to help Robyn. I’ll see you in an hour.”
“Abby, no…!” he shouted, while his enforcers went apeshit in the background. I hung up 
the phone, put it on silent, then slid it into my pocket.
The phone buzzed as I pulled my socks on, then again while I dug Olsen’s pack from the 
pile. He had a hunting knife. I’d seen it. And in human form, I would need it.
I slid the knife into a loop on the right leg of my pants, then crossed the clearing and 
grabbed the insulated jacket they must have made Robyn take off before they’d tied her up. Her 
small, folding knife was in the right pocket, and the material was still warm from her body heat. I 
couldn’t believe how fast everything had happened. 
Armed, dressed, and now fairly warm, I knelt next to Dani, trying to avoid looking at the 
guys. “I’m so sorry,” I whispered, as I unlaced her hiking boots. Mine were a quarter mile away, 
in the wrong direction. “I hate to leave you like this, but I have to help Robyn. I swear they’ll 
pay for what they did to you.”
Fortunately, she had small feet, so the boots were only half a size too big, and since I 
wore an extra pair of socks, I could hardly tell. 
As ready as I was gonna get, I put on my hiking pack and stepped into the woods with 
only a single glance back. I felt a fleeting bolt of sympathy for whatever forensics team would 
soon show up at the scene of the crime. The analysts would be confused over Dani’s bare feet, 
the paw prints in the dirt, and the drops of blood from the cut on my arm, which would seem to 
be contaminated with feline DNA. 
I headed in the direction from which I’d last heard Steve, Billy, and Robyn’s footsteps, 
mentally crossing my fingers that they would stick to that heading. My human form kept weight 
off my injured arm, but for that advantage—that necessity—I’d sacrificed most of my enhanced 
feline senses. My nose and ears were still more sensitive than a human’s, but they were nowhere 
near the advantage they would have been in cat form, and the flashlight I carried was no 
substitute for feline vision, a huge benefit in the dark.
After a quarter mile, I was freezing, exhausted from Shifting without eating, and reeling 
from the trauma of what I’d seen. Reality had finally hit me, and shock was like a cold blanket 
wrapped so tightly around me that I could hardly breathe, let alone think.
My arm throbbed with each beat of my heart, and by the time I’d gone half a mile, blood 
had soaked through both my shirt and Robyn’s jacket. That one Shift hadn’t been enough to 
completely close the wound, and moving my arm had kept the blood flowing. Frustrated, I turned 
the flashlight off and shoved it into the side pocket of my pack, then used my free hand to apply 
pressure to my cut. But then I couldn’t see.
Damn it! How was I supposed to save Robyn when I couldn’t even find her? 
You’re not cut out for this, Abby. Jace was right. You should just sit down and wait to be 
rescued. Again.
But if I did that, Robyn would die scared, alone, and in pain. Just like Dani. And I’d be 
the coward who’d given up on her.
You’re not using your resources… a new voice in my head said, and I recognized it as 
Faythe’s. You’re not human, and you’re not helpless.
I closed my eyes, and the memory came back in full. We’d been training in the barn, at 
night, with the lights off. I could hear her when she spoke, but the others had gone silent, and I 
couldn’t see any of them. Because then, like now, I hadn’t been using my resources. My senses.
The partial Shift. It was standard procedure now, for all enforcers patrolling in human 
form, and it was one of the first things Faythe had taught me.
I squeezed my eyes shut tighter and forced everything else from my mind. The cold, the 
dark, the pain in my arm. None of that mattered. Robyn mattered. Finding her. Saving her.
Avenging the others.
Pain shot through my right eye, followed by an answering spear through my left. The 
pressure was enormous, as if my eyeballs would pop right out of my head. But when the pain 
faded and I opened my eyes, I could see. The colors were muted, of course, as they always were 
when I took on my cat form, but the woods were clear, each tree crisply outlined by the little 
available moonlight.
I grinned over the small victory. This is going to work.
My ears were next, and they were a real bitch. Shifting them was more complicated, and 
the pain was like needles being jabbed through my eardrums and into my brain. But the 
difference was unbelievable. I hadn’t realized how much I was missing in human form until I 
could suddenly hear like a cat. 
Rodent heartbeats. Wind rustling branches far over my head and half a mile away. An 
owl, halfway across the damn forest, swooping in on its prey with a rush of air unique to that 
particular wing formation and dive pattern.
And beneath all that, the steady, low-pitched hum of machinery. My pulse spiked. A 
generator.
Steve’s cabin. It had to be.
I let go of my injured arm and took off through the woods, easily avoiding fallen logs and 
jutting branches now that I could see them. Cold air burned my lungs, but I barely felt it. I was 
buoyed by the hope blooming in my chest. I could save her. I could make up for failing to save 
Dani. And maybe in doing that, I could prove to myself for good that the cowering, helpless 
Abby of days past was gone. The men in the cage had killed her, but from her ashes, this new 
phoenix had been born, and she was ready to unleash justice on their brothers in crime. 
Justice and pain. 
Lots of pain.
Half a mile later, the cabin came into view, its generator growling now. The motor 
drowned out any sounds I might have been able to hear from inside the building, and the sound 
was almost too much for my pounding head to take, so I Shifted my ears back, squatting behind a 
shelter of tall, thick ferns. But I kept my cat eyes. Feline pupils would adjust to the light inside 
the cabin, once I got in.
The cabin was small—so why did they need such a big generator?—and I couldn’t see 
any movement through the windows. After several minutes of watching and listening, I eased my 
pack off my shoulders and onto the ground, then ran hunched over to crouch beneath the 
uncovered front window, which painted a square of untamed forest floor with light from within.
When no one charged out of the cabin wielding a knife, I dared a careful glimpse through 
the glass—and nearly melted with relief. 
Robyn lay on the floor against the back wall of what appeared to be a hunter’s private 
retreat. She was bound with duct tape now, but still fully clothed. And she was completely alone, 
except for the half-dozen disembodied deer heads staring down at her from the rustic, paneled 
walls.
The trophies were grotesque, a horror only humans would find tasteful. Werecats didn’t 
kill for sport. We hunted for food, and we didn’t display the corpses of our prey like gruesome 
prizes.
Robyn didn’t see me—her eyes were closed—and I couldn’t hear anything over the 
growl of the generator, but there was only one door leading off the main room, and it was closed. 
Surely if Steve and Billy were still there, they’d have been watching their prisoner—or worse. 
Maybe they’d already gone back to the campsite looking for me. They would never 
expect me to find them—or even to know who they were—and they’d know Robyn couldn’t 
escape on her own. 
I pulled Olsen’s knife from the loop on my jeans, then crouch-walked to the front door. 
The knob didn’t turn, but it was only secured with a twist lock. I turned it hard to the right, and 
the lock snapped, then the door creaked open several inches. I froze. The door was louder than 
I’d expected, even with the generator’s constant grumbling. But when Robyn didn’t wake up and 
no one stormed into the room, I took a deep breath and stepped into the cabin, then closed the 
door softly at my back so I could listen. 
The noise from the generator was muted from inside the cabin, but it still drowned out 
both my heartbeat and Robyn’s. My cat’s pupils narrowed, adjusting quickly to the influx of 
light, but I still smelled her blood before my eyes pulled her into focus. She lay on the floor 
fifteen feet away, blood slowly oozing through a tear in her jeans from a small wound on her 
calf. She was unconscious, but with any luck, I could haul her out of human hearing range before 
she woke up, in case she started screaming. Werecat strength was the only advantage that 
translated fully into human form. Thank goodness.
Aware of each fleeting moment as it slipped into the past, I raced across the room toward 
Robyn—then landed hard on my rump when my feet slid out from under me.
What the hell?
Stunned, I sat on the floor, still gripping the knife in one hand. I was too surprised to 
think, my mouth open, trying to drag in the breath I’d lost. My empty hand curled in the carpet, 
and I froze.
The cabin wasn’t carpeted; I’d slipped on a rug. A very familiar feeling rug, which had 
slid out from under my feet as I ran.
No…
I closed my mouth and drew in a deep breath through my nose.
Nonononono! The rug was fur. Smooth, soft, sold black fur. 
Werecat fur. 
I scrambled away from the gruesome accent piece until my back hit the wall. My hands 
shook, my knife clattering against the floor over and over again. 
I didn’t recognize the individual scent from the rug. If I had—if I’d known the tom who’d 
died to make that carpet—I might have lost it right then. I was still shaking in Dani’s boots when 
the front door opened a second later, and Steve walked in carrying my hiking pack.
“Hello, Abby.” He dropped my pack at his feet and closed the door, his knife glinting in 
the overhead light. His blade was much bigger than mine. “We’ve been waiting for you.”
Waiting for me? Hadn’t they been searching for me?
My fist clenched around the handle of my own knife, but I was no longer sure it would do 
any good. The truth tapped at the back of my mind like soft knock on a thick door, but I couldn’t 
let it in. It didn’t make sense. It wasn’t possible.
The door on my left creaked open, and Billy stepped out of a dark stairwell leading 
beneath the cabin. With him came the scents of fresh blood, fur, and some harsh, acrid chemical. 
What the hell were they doing in that basement? Slaughtering more innocent college students? 
Or skinning animals to make macabre décor? 
Had they personally killed and skinned the cat whose fur I’d slipped on? 
Humans didn’t know about shifters, and natural jaguars had never been native to 
Kentucky, so what did they think they’d caught? An escapee from an animal preserve?
“What do you want?” I asked, trying to keep them both in sight at once.
“For now? Just your company,” Steve said, but his words had an oddly upbeat ring to 
them. His voice sounded…eager. Saturated with some dark, dangerous desire. “But soon, we’re 
gonna need you to shift. That’s what you call it, right?” 
I stared at him, stunned. Surely I’d misunderstood. He couldn’t know what I was.
Steve raised his knife, still stained with Dani’s blood, and pointed to the far end of the 
room. My gaze tracked the motion reluctantly, and that’s when I saw what hadn’t been visible 
through the small front window.
I gasped, then choked on my next breath. I blinked, but the gruesome images didn’t go 
away. They wouldn’t even blur mercifully, as Mitch’s body had beneath my traumatized gaze. 
Instead, they stared down at me through eyes too much like my own. 
Four werecat heads were mounted in a row on the far wall, on identical wooden plaques. 
Their mouths were open, lips curled back as if they were hissing, but the pose was artificial. 
Arranged post mortem. I could see that, even Steve and Billy couldn’t.
Three of the cats were strangers. Strays, most likely—Jace would have told me if several 
Pride cats had gone missing. But the fourth, the last one on the right, was Leo Brown, one of 
Jace’s enforcers. He’d disappeared during his vacation a couple of months before, and no one 
had found a single sign of him. Until now.
“I…” I closed my eyes, then forced my gaze back to Steve. “I don’t know what you’re 
talking about.” Denial. It was instinct, if not exactly flawless logic.
“Oh?” Steve raised one brow, glancing at my blood-soaked sleeve, then back to my face. 
“How’s your arm? Or would that be your front paw?”
That’s when the truth became too much to deny. They knew what I was. They’d known 
all along. They’d followed me into the woods, hunting me, and my friends had become collateral 
damage.
Wood creaked on my left as Billy squatted next to me, unfazed by my knife. Or maybe he 
couldn’t see it, held so close to my opposite thigh. “You’re the first girl shifter we’ve ever found. 
Been watching you for weeks now.”
“Psyc. 204?” I whispered, glancing up at Steve, who now leaned against the front door, 
blocking the exit. 
He nodded. “A stroke of genius, right? That’s also how I met your girl Robyn, and good 
ol’ Mitch. When he mentioned you all were going camping, I was happy to suggest a good, 
private campsite. Not many people know about this place.”
Which was why it had seemed perfect for my solitary run.
I couldn’t breathe. I couldn’t think. I couldn’t push beyond the fact that they knew. That 
they’d lured me to their cabin to be butchered, stuffed, and mounted. And I’d fallen for it. 
“You’re hunters?” 
“Technically, yes, but that’s like describing a world-renowned chef as a short-order cook. 
We hunt the most dangerous species on the planet.” One side of Steve’s mouth turned up into a 
creepy grin. “You didn’t really think no one knew your little secret, did you?”
Actually, I had. I’d always assumed that if anyone in the human world knew about us, 
everyone would know. But exposing our existence would have put an end to their private safari, 
and they were obviously unwilling to risk that. 
Sick bastards.
“Damn, Steve, look at this!” Billy grabbed my chin, and I gasped as he turned my face 
toward the light. My fist tightened around the knife handle, but I was biding my time. I couldn’t 
afford to miss. “She’s got cat eyes. Never seen that before. Maybe we should just cut her head 
off and mount it like this.”
“Hmmm. Dramatic…” Steve ambled closer for a better look. I jerked my chin from 
Billy’s grasp, clenching . Waiting for the perfect moment. It would come. 
Please let it come… 
“Especially with all those pretty red curls,” he finished.
When Steve was close enough, I closed my eyes and sent up a silent prayer. Then I 
dropped from my heels onto my rump and shoved my left leg out, grunting as I swept both of his 
out from under him.
Steve shouted as he went down. Billy reached across me for Steve, trying to pull him out 
of the way. I swung my knife underhanded, as hard as I could. The blade slid into Billy’s 
stomach, pointed straight back toward his spine. Warm blood poured over my hand. I shoved the 
blade up, and the knife ripped through flesh toward his sternum. 
Billy grunted, but never screamed. I pulled the knife free, and his eyes widened. He 
hunched over the gruesome gap I’d opened in his torso. 
Steve scrambled backward and leapt to his feet as a spray of blood arced up his shirt and 
over his face. 
Billy fell over. His skull smacked the floor and he blinked slowly, staring at nothing. His 
mouth opened and closed, and more blood leaked from the corner. Then his chest stopped 
moving.
Steve gripped his own knife tighter, his knuckles white from the pressure. And finally I 
stood, arms out at my sides, knife ready, feet planted for stability. Just like Faythe had taught me.
We faced off, circling slowly as my pulse raced and my heart pounded. I tried to draw 
him away from Robyn, who was still breathing shallowly. I could see the lump on the side of her 
head. She’d been bait for me, but now she was just a witness to his crimes, which meant Steve 
had no reason to keep her alive.
“You should probably know, guns are the most effective way to hunt a cat,” I said, 
wishing I could wipe blood from the slippery grip of my knife.
“Didn’t think we’d need them for a little girl. You’re more trophy than challenge.”
I circled toward the couch and a rickety-looking end table. “This ‘trophy’ is gonna spit on 
your corpse in about three minutes.”
“Yeah, I’m scared of a five-foot-nothin’ scrap of meat in borrowed boots.” He rolled his 
eyes, sidestepping me. “A couple of your fellow shifters talked our ears off before they died, 
hoping for a quick end to the pain, and they all agreed on one thing. Girl cats are rare, and they 
don’t fight.”
My gaze narrowed on him. “Your intel is outdated.”
“And your luck has run out. Billy practically fell on your knife, because he was still 
green. But this isn’t my first hunt. In a couple of days, your pretty little head’s gonna be mounted 
in a cabin in Mississippi, where the next shifter will get one fleeting glimpse of pointed pupils 
and red hair before we nail him up right next to you.”
Mississippi was free territory, crawling with strays, most of whom wouldn’t be missed. 
How many had Steve already killed? How many had talked before they died?
Edging to the right, I glared at him with all the force of my hatred and let my right foot 
snag the leg of the end table. I tripped and went down on my ass, hard, cursing to make it look 
real. My knife slid across the floor, just out of reach of my grasping fingers. 
Steve dropped on top of me, blade ready. I shoved my right hand into my jacket pocket. 
He grabbed a handful of my hair and pulled my head back, exposing my throat. I faked a terrified 
whine as I pulled Robyn’s folding knife from the pocket of my borrowed jacket. Steve’s eyes 
widened. I pressed the button, and the blade popped out as I shoved it forward.
The three inches of steel slid between his ribs. Steve grunted. I twisted the knife as hard 
as I could. He screamed and dropped his weapon to clutch at mine.
I shoved him off and stood, Robyn’s knife sticky in my hand. He lay on the floor, blood 
pouring from his chest. More bubbled up into his mouth, and I knew I’d hit his lung. He gasped, 
struggling to breathe, and his eyes were already glazing over. “But girl cats don’t fight,” he 
wheezed, as his hands fell limp at his sides.
I arched both brows and pulled my phone from my pocket as his last breath rattled from 
his throat. “Welcome to the new world order.”
Jace got there twenty minutes later, armed with three enforcers and everything necessary 
to clean up my mess. Before I could even try to explain what the hell I’d been thinking and why 
he shouldn’t ship me back to my father in handcuffs and a dunce cap, he shut me down entirely 
with an Alpha glare and a growl worthy of any tom who’d ever held the title.
“Okay, wait, I know you’re mad,” I said. “But Faythe taught me—”
“Stop and think before you finish that sentence,” he said, his voice so deep and gravely I 
could feel it in my bones. His eyes flashed like bright blue flames, and my breath caught in my 
throat. “The most notorious rule-breaker in enforcer history may not be the source you want to 
quote right now.” 
My temper sparked and I found my tongue. “Faythe is who she is today because of who 
she was back then, and I can’t think of a more respectable path than to follow in her footsteps. 
Just like you did, back when she was your Alpha.” 
Jace’s pulse tripped and his eyes widened almost imperceptibly in surprise. For a 
moment, he looked unsure what to say. Then he pointed to a spot on the floor next to Robyn. “Sit 
still and stay out of the way. I’ll deal with you when we’re done with the cabin.” Then he 
stomped off, mumbling under his breath about how I’d used the science of politics against him.
I wasn’t exactly eager to mop up blood and dispose of corpses anyway, so I kept an eye 
on Robyn while the guys erased all evidence of both shifters and criminal activity from Steve’s 
hunting retreat.
Robyn was still unconscious but breathing, and with any luck, she’d sleep through 
everything she shouldn’t see. When the cabin was clean, I would “find” her and call the police, 
while Jace and his men watched from the treetops. Robyn would tell the cops what she 
remembered, but they would find no sign of the murderers or of their morbid hobby. 
Jace and his men reclaimed all the cat trophies so our dead brothers could have a proper 
burial. And even if a forensics team found my blood at the campsite, they’d never piece together 
what had really happened. They’d think their samples were contaminated.
After about an hour, Jace knelt next to me on his way across the cabin, bulging trash bag 
in hand. “You okay, kiddo?” he asked, for the fourth time. Now that he’d had time to think, he 
seemed worried about my potentially fragile mental state.
“Yeah.” Better than I’d expected, considering I’d killed three men and seen three friends 
murdered.
“Good.” He nodded, but his blue-eyed scowl was dark and angry. “You ever disobey an 
order again, and I’ll send you straight back to your father. Understood?”
“Yes.” I held his gaze hoping he saw both remorse and fortitude in mine. “But you know 
I did the right thing. I did the same thing you would have done, in my position.”
His frown deepened. “I’m not in your position. I am an Alpha. You are a—”
“Do not call me a child,” I snapped. “I’m not a kid anymore, Jace.” Even if he couldn’t 
tell that from looking at me—not that he ever looked for long—I’d just written it all over the 
cabin in the blood of my enemies.
“I know. But you’re not an enforcer either. Yet.”
“Yet?” I blinked, sure I’d heard him wrong, and my heart thumped against my sternum. 
He nodded, and his grin warmed me deep inside. “If human government doesn’t hold the 
same appeal after this, let me know. Pride politics are another beast entirely, but I’ll have a job 
waiting for you, if you want it.”
My brows arched. “For real?”
Jace nodded, eyeing me carefully. Almost admirably. “Faythe taught you well.” For a 
second, something painful passed over his expression. “But I can do better. If that’s something 
you’d be interested in, when you finish school.”
Would I be interested in training under the world’s hottest Alpha instead of moving back 
home to hang a worthless poli-sci degree in my childhood bedroom? 
I smiled slowly. “I’m all yours.” My cheeks flamed when I realized how that sounded—
accurate or not. “To train, I mean.” 
He grinned and pulled me up by one hand. “Why do I suddenly feel like I’m in over my 
head?”
“I don’t know,” I murmured, as he knelt to pick up his trash bag. 
Because I felt like I’d just then found my footing.
A Note From Rachel:
Dear Reader,
Thank you so much for reading “Hunt!” I hope you’ve liked what you’ve seen of Abby 
and Jace, and if so, you’re in luck! What follows is a preview of the first Wildcats book, a 
spinoff of the original Shifters series, which launched my career.
The Wildcats books are paranormal romance novels set in the Shifters world. Each will 
be narrated by a new couple, beginning with Abby and Jace’s book, LION’S SHARE, which 
introduces a new concept—a Pride made up entirely of strays.
Readers ask me all the time for more books set in the Shifters world, and now that I have 
a great spinoff concept, I’m happy to oblige! I hope you have as much fun reading them as I’m 
having writing them!
If you liked “Hunt,” I hope you’ll consider reviewing it wherever you review books. And 
if you’d like to be updated about new releases, contests, and cover art, click here to sign up for 
my (hopefully monthly) mailing list. 
Thanks again for reading!
Rachel Vincent
Rachelvincent.com | Twitter | Facebook
SNEAK PEEK OF
LION’S SHARE
A WILDCATS NOVEL
BOOK ONE OF THE
SHIFTERS SPINOFF SERIES
By
R V
ACHEL  INCENT
ONE
Abby
W
hat they don’t tell you about college, before you get there, is how much time you’ll 
have to spend dodging your Alpha’s calls in order to get any studying done.
Or was that just me?
My phone rang again as I unlocked my dorm room door, and again I pressed the ignore 
button, even though I was all done studying for the semester. 
Force of habit. 
But to be fair, I did feel a little guilty that time.
I exhaled with relief when the door closed at my back and warmth from my dorm room 
enveloped me. Three and a half years in Kentucky, and I still couldn’t get used to the cold or the 
snow. Where I came from, winter was little more than a cool breeze around the first of the year, 
and even though Kentucky liked to think of itself as a southern state, no one actually hailing 
from the depth south could claim quite such a familiarity with the changing of the seasons. 
In my part of South Carolina, we only had two: hot and slightly less hot.
I dropped my backpack on my unmade bed and took one resentful look at the bulging 
laundry hamper in the corner of the room, wondering if I actually had to wash my clothes before 
I packed them. Finals were finally over—I’d aced them, thank you very much—and the winter 
holiday didn’t officially start until the next day, which meant I had one last night to spend 
celebrating the end of the semester. 
That night was much too precious to be wasted on laundry. Or packing. Or…
“Abby!” My roommate, Robyn, pushed the door open with her elbow, carrying a 
steaming paper cup in each hand. Her eyes were bright and her cheeks were red. She looked 
happier than I’d seen her in two months. 
Healthier, too. Her appetite had come back almost a month before, and her steady hands 
told me she’d just about put the trauma at the campground behind her.
“Thanks,” I said as she handed me one of the cups. “Hot chocolate?” 
Her smile rose higher on one side as she took a sip from her own. “Irish hot chocolate.”
“Because it was made by leprechauns in a pint-sized sweatshop on the outskirts of 
Belfast?”
“Because it’s liberally spiked with Irish Crème. Gary’s Christmas present to the entire 
floor.” 
Our RA was a pain in the ass nine months out of the year, but he was generous around the 
holidays. God bless him.
I took a sip and sank onto the edge of my bed with my feet tucked beneath me. “All done 
with exams?” I said, leaning across my nightstand to press the ratty old scarf farther into the 
crack in the windowsill. No matter how high we set the thermostat, the draft froze the tip of my 
nose all night, every night.
“Finally!” She sipped from her cup. “You?”
“As of twenty minutes ago. Seven semesters down, one to go.” In six months, I’d have a 
bachelor’s degree—only the second ever awarded to a female werecat. In the world. Ever. My 
brothers were proud. My parents were happy for me, but they were also ready for me to be 
finished with my education, so my “real” life could begin. 
The life wherein I would move back home, marry a future Alpha, and have his shifter 
babies while he trained to take over our Pride from my father. That’s the way it had been for 
every tabby that had come before me. All but one, anyway.
My cousin Faythe—the world’s only female Alpha—had broken the mold. But that 
mostly just changed the way people saw her. Faythe was the exception. The tabby who could not 
be tamed. The rest of us were still expected to follow the rules, because the numbers hadn’t 
changed. There were still only a handful of female werecats capable of bearing children, and if 
any of us refused to do that, the strength of our species would be compromised.
We could literally go extinct.
No pressure.
I took a long, deep drink of my spiked hot chocolate, suddenly wishing I had an entire 
bottle of Irish Crème. Sans the crème. 
I had taken Faythe’s advice, and I’d always been grateful to have it. Insisting on going to 
college had given me the opportunity to be myself—to find myself—before I had to become a 
wife or mother. But now my sojourn in the human world was almost over. 
The clock was counting down toward zero-hour, and with every dreadful tick and 
inevitably tock, I could feel fate’s vise tighten.
“What’s wrong?” Robyn frowned at me from across the room, where she scrolling 
through some game on her phone. “Your hot chocolate doesn’t have enough whiskey?”
“The world doesn’t have enough whiskey,” I muttered, and her frown deepened. 
“Nothing’s wrong. Just family crap.” After what she’d suffered during our fall break camping 
trip, I wouldn’t feel right burdening her with my problems.
Robyn only knew a little about my home-life—just the parts it was safe for me to tell her. 
She knew I had six highly protective older brothers and that my parents had very “traditional” 
expectations for me. She knew that I could handle myself in a fight, thanks to summers spent 
with my cousin Faythe. She knew I was still in touch with my high school boyfriend, Brian, but 
that I only answered about half of his calls, because neither of us knew what to say to each other 
over the phone.
She also knew that a good friend of my parents lived less than an hour from campus, and 
that he acted as my emergency contact and de facto guardian while I was at school.
What she didn’t know were words like Alpha and enforcer. And Pride, at least in the 
shifter sense of the word.
“So, this is our last night on campus!” I drained the last of my spiked hot chocolate and 
tossed the cup into the trash, then turned to my closet, which was still more than half-full of 
unpacked clothes. “Last one dressed has to find us a designated driver.”
Three minutes later, I zipped up my shortest skirt and was just stepping into my highest 
heeled boots when movement out the window drew my eye. A familiar black Pathfinder was 
pulling into a spot in the parking lot two floors below. 
Nooooooo. 
I leaned over the nightstand for a better look, and even with my breath fogging up the 
glass, I recognized the tall, broad figure who stepped out of the car. “Son of a bitch!”
I knew I should have answered my phone!
“Done!” Robyn called, and from the corner of my eye, I saw her stand up in the middle of 
the room, fully dressed. “Get ready to sweet-talk Julie Cass, because she’s the only teetotaler on 
this floor who has her own car.” 
When I didn’t reply, Robin rounded the end of her bed and leaned over my nightstand to 
follow my gaze. “What are we looking a…” When her question faded into drooling nonsense, I 
knew she’d spotted him. “Who is that, and why the hell haven’t you called dibs?”
“That’s Jace Hammond.” I stood, trying to slow the automatic jump in my pulse. She 
wasn’t wrong. He was gorgeous, in a totally untouchable kind of way.
“Wait, that’s your dad’s friend?” Robin said, and I could hear the surprise in her voice, 
even though she obviously couldn’t tear her gaze from…whichever part of him she was ogling. 
“Shouldn’t he be…old?” 
“He’s old enough. And he’s not supposed to be here until tomorrow.” My “guardian” had 
come to collect me a full fifteen hours early. 
In the parking lot, Jace leaned against the side of his SUV and ran one hand through 
thick, wavy brown hair as pulled his phone from his pocket. A second later, mine rang, and for 
the fourth time in the past two hours, his name popped up on the screen. I answered the call and 
pressed the phone to my ear.
“You’re early,” I snapped, and Jace stood up straight to scan the side of the dorm 
building, surprised.
“How did you…?” 
“Fourth from the left, third floor,” I said, and when he found my window, Jace took off 
his sunglasses and grinned up at me. Even from two floors down, his eyes shined bright blue and 
his grin lit little fires deep in the pit of my stomach, as it had been doing since I was eight years 
old. 
I stomped those tiny flames until they were nothing but embers keeping me warm. Jace 
smiled the same way at every woman who met his gaze. That grin meant nothing, and it would 
be dangerous for me to forget that.
Robyn had identified the problem without even knowing it. Alphas weren’t supposed to 
be young and hot. They were supposed to be old and wise, like my father. 
“I’ll be up in a second.” Jace’s voice surged through me, stoking the flames I’d just 
trampled. 
“No! I’ll come down. Stay there.” I hung up before he could argue, and Robyn looked at 
me as if I’d just threatened to cut off my own arm. 
“What the hell are you doing?”
“Looking for my coat.” I eyed a suspicious lump beneath my comforter, but a quick poke 
revealed it to be my pillow.
“You know what I mean. If that guy promised my dad he’d look out for me, I’d sure as 
hell let him. He looks like he could take really good care of you.”
“Stop staring.” A quick search of my closet floor revealed a cardigan, four bras, and the 
hair clip I’d been looking for all month. It was the only one strong enough to hold all of my curls 
out of my face at once. “He’s compulsively unavailable.”
Her hopeful expression collapsed. “Wife?” 
“Yeah, but not his own. His heart belongs to my cousin. My very married cousin.” And 
his body belonged to whatever human girl was warming his bed on any given week. I’d met at 
least a dozen of them, in what little time I’d spent at the lodge during holidays and long 
weekends. 
He’d never failed to introduce me as “Kiddo.”
I saw no sign of my coat, but Robyn’s jacket was hanging over her desk chair. “Hey, can 
I borrow that?”
“Sure.” But she clearly had no idea what I was borrowing, because she was still staring at 
Jace. Not that I could blame her. I’d had a lifetime to practice not-drooling over him at every big 
get-together and I’d spent the past three-and-a-half years with him as my official Alpha, yet I 
was still tempted to stare.
“Be back in a sec,” I said on my way out the door, but Robyn never even glanced away 
from the window. 
I flew down two flights of stairs and through the common room, and a burst of cold air 
hit me when I threw the door open. Shivering, I ran across the grass toward the parking lot in my 
boots, suddenly wishing I’d chosen lower heels. And pants. 
Jace turned when he heard me coming, and a little thrill of satisfaction warmed me from 
the inside when his jaw actually fell open a little. But then he spoke, and that warmth died. 
“What happened to the rest of your skirt?”
“I left it in the nineteenth century. Right next to your sexist perspective.” 
“Ha!” His eyes flashed in amusement, and I caught my breath. “I’m probably the least 
sexist man you’ve ever met.” 
“Don’t sell yourself short. You’re merely one of the least sexy men I’ve ever met.”
He frowned down at me, even though I was in my highest heels. “That’s not what I…” 
Then his grin rebounded when he realized I was kidding. “Funny. Where’s your suitcase?”
“It’s fifteen hours in the future, where it’s supposed to be. Why are you so early?”
Jace’s smile faded and the Alpha peeked from behind bright blue eyes and full lips I’d 
known my entire life. “Change of plans. The council’s called an emergency meeting at the 
ranch.” The Lazy S, of course. In Texas, which was still the de facto council headquarters, even 
after the death of the previous council head, mostly because the Alphas were all accustomed to 
meeting there. “Our flight leaves in three hours.”
“I’m not on the council,” I pointed out, in as rational a tone as I could summon. “Ergo, 
I’m not needed at the ranch.”
“Your dad’s already there, and he wants to take you home for the holidays.”
“Well, I’m an adult, and I belong to your Pride, not his, so he doesn’t have the authority 
to order me home.” Even if he was the head of the council, a position formerly held by his 
brother-in-law, my late uncle Greg Sanders.
Jace’s frown deepened, and I resisted the urge to give in just so I could see him smile 
again. “Your father’s not ordering; he’s requesting. Nicely.”
“And I’m declining.” I crossed my arms over my chest to hold Robyn’s jacket closed. 
Also, to illustrate my determination. “Nicely.”
“Fine. Then I’m ordering you to go back upstairs and throw some necessities into a bag. 
Now.”
“Why? Are you scared to stand up to my dad?” I knew I’d stepped over the line when a 
growl rumbled from his throat and my knees tried to buckle beneath me, on instinct. Because my 
Alpha was angry, and my inner cat knew that was my fault.
Jace had grown into his position quickly, and as the youngest male Alpha in the world, he 
was also among the strongest. His leadership had been challenged three times in the four-and-a-
half years since he’d taken over the Appalachian Territory, and none of the challengers had come 
close to beating him. There were only a handful of werecats in the world who could hold their 
own with him one-on-one, and I was not among those. Nor did I want to be.
He mirrored my stance with his arm crossed over his broad chest, and I could hear the 
warning before he even spoke. “Abigail Wade, if you’re not in the car in ten minutes, I’ll…”
“You’ll what? Drag me out by my hair? Wouldn’t be a first for me.”
That was a low blow, and I had no right to aim it at him, but the moment the words left 
my mouth, his anger crumpled beneath the weight of something much worse. 
Sympathy.  
I found pity and awkward compassion everywhere I turned in the werecat world because 
all my fellow Shifters could think about when they looked at me was what had happened to me 
the summer I turned seventeen, and how broken I must be because of it. Which was why I 
preferred the human world, where I was presumed strong until proven damaged. 
“Sorry.” I bowed my head and stared at my boots. “I shouldn’t have—”
“No, you’re right.” He cleared his throat and I stared at his boots. “We all let you down 
when you were just a kid, and I let you down last October. You could have been killed out there 
in the woods, and I can’t let that happen again. So I’m ordering you to go get your things and 
come with me to the ranch. For your own safety.”
That was without a doubt the most overused phrase in any Alpha’s repertoire, and it 
sounded strange, coming from Jace. As if he didn’t really believe what he was saying. But 
further argument would do me no good, so I sucked in a deep breath and made myself meet his 
gaze. “Fine. Give me ten minutes.” Then I turned and walked back to the dorm without another 
glance at him.
What had happened to me—and to Robyn—on fall break wasn’t Jace’s fault. If I’d told 
him I was leaving campus, as I was technically obliged to do, he would have sent at least one of 
his enforcers to watch out for me, hidden in the trees in feline form. I’d kept him out of the loop 
because I didn’t want to be watched, and Jace had probably caught hell from the other council 
members for letting one of the country’s few and precious tabbies put herself in mortal danger.
But he must have taken full responsibility for what I’d done—as any good Alpha would
—because no one had yelled at me for my lapse in judgment. Not even my parents, during our 
bi-monthly video chat.
I owed Jace, even beyond the normal respect due an Alpha from one of his pride 
members, and paying him back with insolence was unacceptable.
In our dorm room, Robyn finally turned away from the window to watch me throw 
clothes—both clean and dirty—into my big duffle. “You’re leaving? Now?”
“My dad wants me to come home for Christmas.” I threw my toothbrush, its charger, and 
a nearly empty tube of toothpaste into my toiletries bag, on top of the small, square box that had 
been there since my previous trip home. Then I scooped my makeup into the bag with one swipe 
of the counter. “Will you be okay here on your own?” Since she was staying on campus over the 
holiday, we wouldn’t have to pack up all our stuff and vacate the dorm room, a convenience I 
hadn’t truly appreciated until that moment.
“Yeah. The nightmares are practically gone. I’m fine, Abby. Really.”
I met her gaze in the mirror, trying to decide whether or not that was true. She had few 
physical scars from what went down in the woods over fall break, and those bastards hadn’t 
gotten the chance to molest her. Still, she’d seen three of our friends slaughtered right in front of 
her, and most people weren’t used to seeing violence or death, up close and personal. 
More than anything in the world, I wished I wasn’t either.
“Okay. Knowing my parents, I’ll probably be gone for most of the winter break, but I can 
come back sooner if you need me. Call if you want to talk. Okay?”
“I promise.” She smiled at me in the mirror. “Now go have Christmas with your family.”
Christmas with my family. 
My mother would hover over me and analyze everything I said for evidence that I hadn’t 
recovered from that summer four years ago. My father would watch me out of the corner of his 
eye and not-so-subtly mention Brian, and how accomplished he’d become as an enforcer, 
looking for any sign that I was ready to settle down and turn my parents into grandparents.
My brothers would follow me into town so I couldn’t get snatched off the street during 
any last-minute Christmas shopping, and they’d mentally dismember any guy who had the balls 
to even look my way, in spite of my large fraternal guard detail.
Going home for Christmas sounded about as much fun as Thanksgiving spent in prison.
On the bright side, there’d probably be ham. 
“So, what’s the big emergency?” I said as I threw my duffle onto the rear floorboard, then 
slid into the passenger’s seat of Jace’s SUV. His gaze landed on my thighs, where my short skirt 
had ridden up, and the sudden jump in his pulse was…gratifying. 
He’d seen me naked—and I, him—a million times, but nudity means little to most 
shifters, because it’s required for the transformation to and from feline form. Shifters are aroused 
by what they don’t see. What they almost see. By the intent implied by flesh displayed behind or 
beneath strategically placed panels of lace or silk. Flesh that is put on display, in private, for a 
specific intended audience.
Lingerie is big with shifters, for obvious reasons.
But Jace had never looked at me like that before. As if he wondered what my underwear 
looked like. 
I laughed, and he flushed—I’d never seen an Alpha flush in anything other than anger. 
Then he looked straight out the windshield and made an obvious, concerted effort to slow his 
pulse. 
“Jace?” I said, and he cleared his throat.
“Hmm?” He slammed the gearshift into reverse and made a production of looking into 
the rearview mirror as he backed out of the parking space.
“The emergency? Why are we going to the ranch?”
“Oh. Someone’s killing humans, and the local news has picked up the story.” 
“Local?” Not good. “How local?” 
“For us? Very. The victims have all been killed in our territory.” Jace looked left, then 
right on his way out of the parking lot, and my stomach clenched as the details began to coalesce 
into something that almost made sense. “Right now, the cops think there’s a wild animal on the 
loose, but if we don’t find the rogue and take him out, they’re going to start suspecting foul play. 
Or they’re going to shoot one of our guys while they’re out hunting this mythical black cougar, 
then they’ll have biological proof that humans aren’t the most dangerous thing out there. The 
council’s in self-defense mode. They’ll do whatever it takes to keep us from being outted.”
“You’re sure the killer’s one of ours? Couldn’t it be a thunderbird or a bruin?” Please let 
it be a thunderbird or a bruin. Bird- and bear-shifters could be every bit as vicious as werecats, 
and if it wasn’t a cat, it wasn’t our responsibility.
“Definitely a cat,” Jace said, and I had to grab the door handle to keep from landing in his 
lap with he took a turn too hard. He still didn’t drive like an Alpha. “But probably not ours.”
“You think it’s a stray,” I said, as more of the pieces fell into place. 
“We didn’t get to examine the bodies—the cops got there first, and we don’t have anyone 
on the inside—but we know for a fact that there are no natural wildcats in Appalachia.” Or 
anywhere else heavily populated with shifters. Natural cats avoided us like the plague. “So it 
better be a stray,” he continued. “Because if one of our own’s gone rogue, we’re all in big 
trouble.” 
But what he didn’t say aloud—what I could see etched into the brand new Alpha-lines on 
his otherwise youthful forehead—was that we couldn’t afford for it to be a stray either. Not when 
they were so close to voting on the resolution he and Faythe had cosponsored in the territorial 
council. 
For the first time in U.S. history, the council was being asked to formally acknowledge a 
Pride made up entirely of strays who wished to carve out a territory of their own in one of the 
free zones. Faythe’s husband Marc—a stray adopted as a child by her father—had been acting as 
liaison to the potential new Pride, helping them get all their Ts crossed and Is dotted, in order to 
present themselves at the next meeting.
If the council discovered that the murderer was a stray, that resolution would never pass. 
The project Jace, Faythe, and Marc had hoped would bring lasting peace between strays and 
Pride cats would fail before it ever even had a chance.
“That’s why I have to go with you to the ranch,” I said, and Jace gave me a small nod. If 
there was a murderous stray loose in the Appalachian territory, my dad wouldn’t want me to stay 
at the lodge for the holidays. Even though Jace had probably tripled his security measures to 
protect his mother and sister.
Tabbies were too rare and too precious to risk, and having two of them of childbearing 
age in the same house would only strengthen the temptation for a stray who’d probably never 
even met a female of his own species.
“So, this is history repeating itself? The big strong tomcat has come to drag the helpless 
council chairman’s daughter home from school for her own good?”
“It was the right thing to do for Faythe, and it’s the right thing to do for you. But you’re 
far from helpless.” Jace’s voice rang with admiration that warmed me all over. “I know a few 
hunters rotting in shallow graves in the woods who could attest to that.” His pride in me became 
misplaced nostalgia, and alarms went off in my head. “Faythe taught you well.”
The warm smile he gave me would have felt wonderful—if it were meant for me. “Jace…
I’m not Faythe.”
He laughed again, and those inner alarms began to fade. “Glad to hear it. Things never 
seem to work out in my favor, when she’s involved. You, however…” He aimed another blue-
eyed glance at me, and I caught my breath “You’re my new lucky charm. Kiddo.”
Read the rest Abby and Jace's story in LION’S SHARE, coming in late 2014. If you’d like to be 
notified when future books in this series or other books by Rachel Vincent are released, sign up 
for her mailing list here.
About the Author
Rachel Vincent is a former English teacher and an eager champion of the Oxford comma. She 
shares her home in Oklahoma with two cats, two teenagers, and her husband, who’s been her # 1 
fan from the start. Rachel is older than she looks and younger than she feels, and she remains 
convinced that writing about the things that scare her is the cheapest form of therapy—but social 
media is a close second.
Also By Rachel Vincent
Shifters 
Stray
Rogue
Pride
Prey
Shift
Alpha 
Unbound 
Blood Bound
Shadow Bound
Oath Bound
Soul Screamers 
My Soul To Take
My Soul To Save
My Soul To Keep
My Soul To Steal
If I Die
Before I Wake
With All My Soul
Coming Soon
Lion’s Share
The Stars Never Rise
Menagerie
Acknowledgements:
Thanks must go, first and foremost, to my husband, who has put countless hours into my 
career in the form of artwork, web design, brainstorming, and moral support. You are my anchor 
and I love you.
Thanks also to Rinda Elliott, my long-term critique partner, who critiqued and proofed 
both “Hunt” and LION’S SHARE, as well as the entire Shifters series.
Thanks to Jennifer Lynn Barnes, for untold hours of Panera-fueled writing and company.
Thanks to Carrie Ryan and Jeannette Battista, for endless resources.
Thanks to Melissa, Molly, and the Deadline Dames for encouragement on this 
independent venture.
And thanks most of all to all the Shifters fans who asked for more.
Table of Contents:
Title Page
Copyright
Dedication
Hunt
A Note From Rachel
Excerpt from Lion’s Share
Acknowledgments  <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
JAMES & THE DRAGON
Vol. 1 of the Farloft Chronicles
by
Theresa Snyder
Smashwords Edition
COPYRIGHT 1996 and 2013 by Theresa Snyder
All rights reserved, including the right of reproduction in whole or part without the 
written permission from the author. Exceptions made to reviewers who may quote brief 
excerpts in connection with a review.
Ebook formatting by www.ebooklaunch.com
Newsletter
I hope you enjoy this book.
If you would like to know about my latest releases, sigh up for my 
newsletter and receive a free Novella.
Fur and Frost – A Dragon Love Story
Table of Contents
ALSO BY THERESA SNYDER
The Dragon
The Wizard
The Dragon & The Wizard
James
Laval Faces the Plague
James Sinks
Farloft Hears a Cry
Laval sees a Change
The Dragon’s Lair
James and the Dragon Become Friends
James Works for His Supper
James - The Blacksmith
The Tale of the Zonguldak Ruby
Wizard’s Brew
The Way Home
Farloft Worries
James Arrives Home
Farloft Flies for Help
The Wizard & the Dragon Meet Again
The Wizard’s Magic
Touch & Go
The Boy, the Dragon & the Wizard
Yet Another Brew
The Fate of Farloft
Author’s Note
ALSO BY THERESA SNYDER
The Farloft Chronicles
(For Middle School Readers)
James & the Dragon - Vol. 1
Kingdom of the Last Dragon - Vol. 2
Dragon Deception - Vol. 3
Too Many Dragons - Vol. 4
Three and a Half Dragons - Vol. 5
The Star Traveler Series
(Young Adult Sci-fi)
The Helavite War - Vol. 1
The Heirs of Henu - Vol. 2
Old Friends/New Enemies - Vol. 3
The Malefactors - Vol. 4
Cataclysm - Vol. 5
A Mear Sleight of Hand - Vol. 5
Learn more at www.TheresaSnyder.Blogspot.com
-THE DRAGON-
Farloft, the dragon, had been living in this region for centuries. Once a friend of 
man, as the years passed he had become shunned. Now he lived quietly in his mountain 
top retreat - an observer rather than a participant in the lives of humans.
Now, Farloft sat on a rocky perch above the entrance to his lair, his piercing golden 
eyes following the approaching wizard.
The cold morning air had no effect on him - dragons felt neither hot nor cold. His 
observation of Laval began early this morning. He first caught sight of the wizard 
through the fog on the valley floor as he emerged from the forest below out onto the 
plain. The human would need an hour or so to wind his way up the path to the cave.
Farloft flexed his iridescent green wings in the morning sun as it caressed the 
mountain top, his wing span as large as any sail on the ships at sea. His massive claws bit 
at the stone of the ledge to keep him from involuntarily taking flight. He wanted to hunt 
this morning, but with the wizard’s pending arrival his stomach would have to wait.
Farloft’s last experience with Laval was a most unpleasant memory. The dragon did 
not intend to leave his lair unguarded. He gave only a momentary thought to flying down 
to meet the wizard, than thought better of it.
Best to sit and wait.
Best he let the wizard come to him.
Best to be on your own ground when dealing with someone that could not be 
trusted.
- THE WIZARD -
Laval rode steadily on in the bitter cold. Only an escaped lock of his long, raven 
black hair and his crooked nose could be seen from the depths of his crimson colored 
robes. He was a man on a mission.
The King always kept a “master wizard,” as his father and his grandfather before 
him. No one could remember how Laval came to be at court or how long he had been 
there. It was as if the kingdom had never been without his powerful magic. The wizard 
was the King’s most trusted adviser. His magic struck fear in those that were his enemies, 
and awe in those few that were his friends.
The road took Laval through the sparse countryside. Nothing had grown well this 
past year, not crops or children. The young and the elderly were the first to die of the 
plague. The villagers were hit the hardest. The King closed the castle to visitors at the 
first sign of plague and therefore kept the ruling class free of the disease. But, beyond the 
walls of the castle, the land and its people were barren and cold.
As Laval approached yet another village he noticed the vacant, hungry look of the 
people as they peered out their doors or looked up from what duties could not be ignored 
that brought them out in the bitter cold. He heard the sound of the mucus filled coughs 
that accompanied those who were bound to die from this horrible plague. He reflexively 
pulled his cowl up higher around his neck to over his mouth and nose. No sense taking 
chances. There were thatched roof houses in this village with no signs of life - no smoke 
from the chimneys - no coughing - only silence.
Laval steadily urged his mount forward. A peasant rose up from nowhere and 
grabbed his leg above the leather of his boot.
“Somethin’ for the children? A crust of bread?” he begged, as he walked beside the 
wizard’s steed.
Laval knew better than to give into the man. If he gave to this poor wretch, he 
would be mobbed by all who saw he had anything to give. He pushed the man away with 
his booted foot, almost knocking him to the ground even though the push was light. The 
man was that weak
“I have nothing to give.” He spurred his horse and rode on through the village at a 
trot.
Laval looked back. He could remember when that place was full of laughing 
children with round faces. Now there were only the sights and sounds of death. This past 
spring and summer during the long months the plague ravaged the land, he worked all his 
considerable magic to stop the spread of the disease. But, it was no use. The people 
continued to die.
Laval’s mission was to obtain a portion of the wing from Farloft the dragon. 
Combining the magic within that wing with his own considerable wizard’s magic, he was 
sure he could create a potion that would stop the ravaging disease. Dragon’s wings were 
known for their healing power.
Even with Laval’s considerable skills, it took over a week to locate the dragon’s lair. 
The last time he saw the dragon was years ago when he was wizard to the former King. 
Dragon and wizard exchanged heated words over an error of judgment on Laval’s part, 
he was sure Farloft would remember. Dragons possessed excellent memories. That past 
transgression would make it difficult to convince the dragon to give up the needed 
portion of his wing.
Laval rode on for the rest of the day. He fought his way through the dense forest at 
the edge of the kingdom and emerged below the western ridge where the dragon’s lair 
perched on the highest peak. It would take him another hour, a least, to reach Farloft. The 
wizard pulled his heavy robe tighter around his lean frame. He hunched lower in his 
saddle against the bitter wind through the valley he must cross to the mountain heights.
- THE DRAGON AND THE WIZARD -
Not far from where a young peasant boy named James worked, this unique meeting 
between dragon and wizard was taking place - unique not because of its participants, but 
because it took place at all.
For neither the dragon nor the wizard liked one another. The dragon thought the 
wizard was sneaky and underhanded.
Which he was.
The wizard found the dragon pompous and arrogant.
Which he was.
But, it must be said in defense of the dragon, that it was difficult for the dragon not 
to act like a ‘know it all.’ After all he had lived over a thousand years and had seen just 
about all there was to see.
“What I ask is not so much,” the wizard Laval stated. He shifted uncomfortably on 
the rock where he sat. It was cold in the dragon’s outer cave, there being no fire.
“Oh no, not much,” Farloft said sarcastically. He eyed the wizard with suspicion. “If 
I give you a piece of my wing it will only leave me flightless for weeks and at the mercy 
of any knight wielding a sword or a villager with a pitchfork. And how am I to hunt if I 
cannot fly?” Farloft asked.
“No one has ever found this place but me. I will see that you are well cared for from 
the King’s herds until you are healed.”
“And whose word do I have on this agreement?” Farloft snapped. “I am hunted and 
shunned by humans. It is not like the old days when we dragons were revered.” Farloft’s 
brow furrowed in disapproval. “If I believed you could concoct a cure for the plague with 
the magic from it... if I believed you would cure the people and relieve their suffering.... I 
might consider it, but I am not so sure.” Laval had lied to him in the past. “I am afraid 
you will fail and the villagers will continue to die and what will become of me? Left to 
starve, unable to fly for weeks. Do you know how hungry a dragon can get in even one 
week?” Farloft asked defiantly. “Well, let me tell you. Hungry enough to eat a wizard and 
I would not eat a ‘peasant,’ much less a ‘wizard,’ unless they were the last thing edible on 
earth.” Farloft snorted in disdain, his tail thrashing in irritation back and forth across the 
rock floor of the cave.
A silence fell between the two. The second lid of Farloft’s golden eyes started to 
sneak closed. The interview was over; Laval had failed unless he could think of some 
other strategy.
“Well,” Laval said idly. “In any case, most likely what I have read is wrong. I can’t 
imagine that a dragon’s wing has such power. It is probably just talk. Old tales passed 
from storytellers over the years - distorted in their telling way out of proportion.”
Farloft’s eyes popped open. “Out of proportion?” he squawked. The words choked 
in his throat. “No power????” he shouted indignantly. “Out!” Farloft yelled. “Out! Before 
I change my mind about eating wizards.”
All of a sudden the cave became stiflingly hot. Laval saw Farloft’s scaly skin melt 
from an iridescent green to an almost blinding red glow.
Laval gathered up his robes and made a hasty retreat toward the mouth of the cave.
“I’m going,” he shouted loudly over his shoulder, to make himself heard above the 
rumble in Farloft’s throat. Any minute now, flames would be licking out the mouth of the 
cave toward Laval’s fleeing backside.
“I’m going,” he repeated, “but I’ll be back.”
Laval just made it to safety behind a boulder outside the cave as the opening was 
engulfed in the flame of Farloft’s anger.
- JAMES -
James stood knee deep in the mud of the bog. His breath formed small puffs in the 
chilled air as he huffed and grunted to cut the peat from the bog. Soon the ground would 
freeze too hard to chop the peat, used as fuel to warm the villager’s small homes. The last 
three mornings a light dusting of snow covered the land when James woke up. During the 
day the sun did not warm the earth enough to melt it. Soon the heavy snow would come. 
If he did not have enough peat cut and stored by then, he would likely freeze this winter. 
James’ stomach growled. He had not eaten a decent meal in weeks. Freeze or starve, he 
thought, what a choice.
The crops were meager this year - the soil poor and too few hands to work them. 
The plague hit the village hard this past growing season. James’ family died along with 
almost two-thirds of the rest of the inhabitants. James was now an orphan with no one to 
care if he joined the numbers of the dead.
He side-stepped an area of the bog where one of the villagers marked a warning at 
the edge of a sink hole with a stick. Before he died his father made James swear not to 
come to the bog alone. It was dangerous, he warned. There was quicksand. A body would 
get swallowed up before help could arrive. James broke that promise to his father. He had 
no one to come with him. Everyone in the village was looking out for their own family, 
or at least what was left of it after the plague. No one had the time, energy or resources to 
take in another mouth to feed.
At the age of ten, James was left to look after himself the best he could.
He pulled his tattered cape up close around his neck and bent over double once 
again, to hack at the peat with his dull spade.
He was exhausted and cold when an older man and his son approached the bog.
“Whose there?” the man called.
“James,” he answered. He could see now that it was the blacksmith and his son. 
There would be trouble.
The two came closer. “You been out here a bit,” the Smithy said. “Nice pile,” he 
commented as he hefted one of the squares of peat. “You wouldn’t mind sharin’ would 
you?”
The man’s son took a defensive position between James, in the bog up to his knees, 
and the pile of peat. The older man picked up several pieces and piled them in his arms. 
“We’ve sick at home need warming. You look healthy enough to cut a few more pieces 
‘fore the cold sets in.”
James took a step forward. “And you and Tithe look healthy enough to cut your own 
peat.” He started up out of the bog to defend his hard day’s work.
Tithe pushed him backward into the bog with his spade. “And we be strong enough 
to take what we want,” Tithe said.
The Smithy picked up two more pieces and gave James a smile full of rotten teeth. 
“Thank ye lad.” Tithe backed up waving his spade maliciously.
James could do nothing. The Smithy was the largest man in the village even with 
the weight loss from the lack of stores this year. His son was twice James’ ten seasons 
and almost twice his size. James had never been big.
He stood shivering in the bog, nothing for it but to cut more. He pushed his long 
dirty brown hair out of his eyes and got back to work.
-LAVAL FACES THE PLAGUE-
Laval was frantic. Upon his return to the castle he found that a kitchen maid had 
come in contact with a peasant while searching the orchards for any overlooked apples 
for the King’s table. She had come down with the plague. There were now two kitchen 
maids, a stable boy and Laval’s only child, Megan had the plague. Megan went to 
administer to the sick in her father’s absence. She was very ill. Laval knew he could not 
save her. He simply must convince Farloft to lend his power in order to battle the disease.
He bent his head down to Megan and took her hand. “You must rest, my dear. I am 
going to get something to help you recover.”
Megan clung to her father’s hand. “Don’t go father,” she pleaded. Her body was 
racked with a cough from the effort of speaking.
“I won’t be gone long,” he assured her. “And when I return I will have a cure,” he 
said with conviction. He would not leave Farloft’s lair without the wing piece he needed.
He left his daughter in the care of her former nursemaid, saddled one of the King’s 
finest steeds and raced back toward the dragon’s cave.
- JAMES SINKS -
James was once again working in the bog. It seemed an endless task trying to cut 
enough peat to stay warm. He longed for his father’s strong arms and his mother’s warm 
ones.
He was on his last cut of the day. By now, his legs were no longer aching, but numb 
from the cold of his wet task. He had ceased to have any feeling in his feet an hour ago. 
Twice he stumbled and sunk to his crotch in the mire of the bog.
James took a step to his left. He immediately began to sink. He struggled to pull 
himself from the sucking ooze of the quicksand. The more he thrashed about, trying to 
gain a purchase on solid ground, the faster he sank.
He could find nothing on the bog to grab hold of. Within moments he sunk waist 
deep in the muck.
He tried to reach the spade he dropped. If he could reach it, he could drive its head 
into solid ground and possibly succeed in pulling himself out. He strained toward the 
handle, his fingers just touching its tip.
The quicksand made a gurgling sound, almost like the earth was belching and James 
sank deeper into the bog.
“Help!” he screamed.
He knew it was useless. The village was too far away and the villagers were all 
inside trying to stay warm.
In panic, he called again. After all, it was all he could do.
“Help! Please help me!”
By now, only his shoulders were above the quicksand.
He never should have broken his promise to his father and come out here alone. 
Better to freeze to death than be buried alive.
James shouted at the top of his lungs.
“Can anyone hear me? Please help me!”
- FARLOFT HEARS A CRY -
Farloft was out hunting when he heard James’ cry. The dragon shifted his wings in 
the air current that held him aloft, in order to get a look at whomever it was who was in 
distress.
A boy.
Farloft’s keen eyesight made him out clearly. A lad stuck in the bog. The dragon 
scanned the fields below and saw no one coming to the boy’s aid. He appeared to be all 
alone.
Farloft tucked his wings a bit closer to his body which angled him into a steep glide 
toward the bog. By the time he reached the boy, James was almost totally submerged.
There was no time for pleasantries. Farloft popped his wings fully open above the 
bog. He used their great mass against the air to bring himself to a stop. He flapped twice 
to position himself just above the boy, and with one huge front paw reached down and 
yanked the lad from the quicksand. One more backward thrust of his giant wings, and 
both he and the boy were on solid ground.
“Please don’t eat me,” James pleaded. For he felt sure that was the dragon’s intent. 
Why else would he pull him free? What misfortune, James thought. To be dragged from 
quicksand only to be eaten by a dragon.
“Eat you?” Farloft retorted. “I would rather starve than put anything as filthy as you 
in my mouth. Where are your people?” Farloft demanded. He didn’t give James time to 
reply before breaking into a tirade. “Did your father not warn you about the dangers of 
cutting peat by yourself? Had I not come by when I did you would have drowned. I 
cannot believe your parents let you out alone on a day like this.” Farloft stuck his nose up 
in the air and inhaled deeply. “By the smell of it, it will not be more than a few hours 
before it snows again.”
Farloft looked down at the boy. The lad stood before him coated with mud from 
head to foot, doing his best to remain standing. The cold, a close brush with death, and a 
dragon encounter left him unsteady on his feet and close to tears.
“Are you all right?” Farloft asked, in a gentler tone.
The boy wiped at his nose with one muddy fist. “Yes, sir,” he replied.
“Do you think you can make it home?” Farloft asked.
“Aye,” the lad replied quietly, but made no move to go.
“Well then, off with you.” Farloft commanded.
James barely took two steps before his knees buckled and he collapsed to the 
ground.
Farloft clucked his tongue in dismay. “This will not do at all.” He moved around in 
front of the boy. “I suppose if I leave you here you will freeze to death.” He pushed at the 
boy with one massive claw. The lad, unconscious, failed to cringe from Farloft’s touch. 
“And I suppose if I flew you home your people would either chuck pitchforks and rocks 
at me or run from me and leave you to freeze. Either way, you freeze,” Farloft said to 
himself. Dragons were used to talking to themselves. Due to their reputation, quite often 
they only had themselves for company. “Cannot leave you here to freeze. Cannot take 
you home.” He shook his head from side to side. “How do I get myself into such 
predicaments?”
Farloft positioned himself where he could get a comfortable grip on the boy. He 
reached out with one immense foot, picked James up and sprang back into the air.
- LAVAL SEES A CHANGE -
Laval made the level space outside the dragon’s den just as Farloft emerged after 
depositing his burden in the cave. Both wizard and dragon were surprised at the others 
appearance.
“What are you doing here, Wizard?” Farloft demanded in a gruff voice.
“I have come to ask you once again for a portion of your wing. I will beg if need be. 
My daughter is ill.”
Farloft remembered the child when she was born and how happy her birth had made 
Laval and his wife. He remembered Laval’s wife’s death and the comfort the child gave 
him through those times. He remembered her as a toddler, unafraid of a huge dragon. He 
delighted in speaking with her and being on the receiving end of the good healthy 
scratches she gave him between his shoulder blades. He remembered the young lass with 
the lovely, raven hair. He often caught her out gathering herbs for her father’s potions 
and ointment. They would spend a lazy afternoon together those days, after her father and 
Farloft no longer spoke - after a dragon was no longer wanted in the presence of humans.
“Megan is ill?”
“Yes, the plague has reached the castle,” Laval replied. “Please, Farloft, put 
whatever is between us aside and let me save my daughter and anyone else I can.”
Farloft looked up into the sky. “You will have to run your steed hard to make it back 
to the castle before it snows.” His decision made, he spread his wings out wide. “Take a 
piece from each wing, close to the body and the same size on both sides. Perhaps you will 
not mis-balance me and I can still fly, after a fashion.”
Laval extracted his knife and with precision took a small piece from each wing.
Farloft thought about sending the boy home with Laval, but he doubted the boy 
could live through the cold trip on horseback to the village. And besides, it might be 
condemning the boy to death if Laval carried the disease from the castle. He decided to 
keep the boy until he was fit to travel.
Laval bowed to the dragon.”Thank you, Farloft.”
“I sincerely hope Megan recovers, Laval.”
Laval bolted to his horse’s back and was off.
- THE DRAGON’S LAIR -
James awoke in a cave. He saw no sign of the dragon. He found himself lying from 
the waist down in a pool fed by a warm spring. The water felt as comfortable as bath 
water, and James realized his feet and legs were no longer numb from the cold.
He was surprised to find the cave well lit, without the benefit of any torches James 
could see. He puzzled on this miracle for a moment before he noticed several small, 
natural rock, cone formations which rose from the floor perhaps as high as his waist. 
From their depths came a soft golden glow and long pillars of steam. This glow then 
reflected and refracted off the ceiling of the cave which was completely covered with a 
naturally formed crystal deposit.
James slid further into the pool, letting himself float as he studied the huge crystals 
in the ceiling. After he satisfied himself on this wonder, he flopped over and scrubbed at 
the caked mud in his hair and on his face. The clear water of the pool took on a dark 
brown shade where James worked away at the dried bog stuck all over him. He shed his 
simple garments and scrubbed them on a rock by the edge of the pool until the water 
from them ran clear and clean. He prudently dressed again, just in case he needed to 
make a quick escape should the dragon return.
He noted the cave’s two adjoining tunnels. The one large entrance would 
undoubtedly be the way out. The other smaller tunnel leading off in the opposite direction 
was darker and would probably lead him only further into the cave’s depths.
Reluctant to leave the pool’s warmth, James knew he had to. His clothes needed to 
be dry before he tried to get home. Going out in weather like today’s, while wet, would 
surely mean his death by freezing.
He climbed out of the pool to investigate the glowing cones in the floor of the cave. 
He leaned over the side of one surprised to see it contained boiling water. The cone’s 
sides were studded with crystals like the ceiling and the crystals glowed red hot with the 
heat of the water. James warmed himself in the heat from the steam rising off the surface 
of the bubbling liquid. He would have fallen asleep but for his growling stomach.
James was startled by the approach of the dragon, the scraping noise of his mighty 
claws on the rock floor of the cave and his humming announced him. It surprised James 
that dragons sang. It surprised him even more to find he recognized the ballad the beast 
was humming.
The huge dragon came around the corner, tossed something in the nearest steaming 
cone, and proceeded directly to the pool where he stepped in with both front feet, 
seemingly oblivious to James’ presence.
“Feeling better?” Farloft asked over his shoulder.
“Yes,” James answered hesitantly.
“What is your name, boy?”
“James,” he replied.
“Oh no,” Farloft began. “You cannot possibly be a James. I have known several 
James’ in my time.” He shook his massive head and clucked deep in his throat. “No, no. 
The James’ I have known were all big, strapping lads with broad shoulders. You are 
much too small for a James. I shall call you Jamie.”
Farloft finished paddling in the water. He sat back on his haunches holding his wet 
front feet over a cone to dry. “A dragon must stay clean,” Farloft explained his actions. 
“Dirt affects buoyancy, you know.” His eyes fell on James.
James stood with his hands on his hips in a defiant pose. “My name is James. My 
father’s name was James and his father before him.”
Farloft snorted in disdain. “Perhaps they grew to be James’, but I doubt they were 
James’ all their lives. No, I shall call you Jamie.”
“And what is your name?” James demanded in a not-too-friendly tone.
“I am called Farloft,” the dragon replied with dignity.
“Then I shall call you Far,” James pronounced in a sarcastic tone. If Farloft 
shortened his name, then he would shorten the dragon’s.
Farloft’s brow ridges lifted in surprise at the boy’s impudence. The lad was willing 
to take on a dragon over his name. The dragon’s expression quickly changed to a smile. 
“Very well then, it shall be James.”
“And I am pleased to meet you, Farloft.” James bowed to his huge captor. “May I 
ask why you brought me here?” If he was to be the dragon’s next meal, he hoped he 
could talk him out of it. For now that Farloft was in the cave, James could see there 
would be no getting away from him. His huge bulk blocked the entrance completely.
“No ulterior motive, I assure you,” Farloft replied. “Now for supper.”
James would have run but for Farloft blocking his path. He closed his eyes, fell to 
his knees, and prayed for his death to be quick.
Meanwhile, Farloft reached into the cone and removed what he threw into it upon 
entering the cave. When he turned back he found James kneeling before him. He waited 
politely for James to finish his prayer.
When the dragon failed to seize him, James opened his eyes.
“Hungry?” Farloft asked with a friendly snaggle toothed grin, as he held up what he 
pulled from the cone.
James saw it was a very large elk, the fur scorched off and the flesh cooked to a pale 
white.
“Poached elk,” Farloft announced, as he placed it on a rock slab between James and 
himself. “I usually do not go to the trouble of cooking my meat, but I know you humans 
prefer it that way.”
Farloft yanked a full hindquarter off the elk and handed it to the boy. “Bon appetite, 
James. That is French for eat up.”
James sighed in relief. He was not going to be the dinner, he was invited to dinner. 
He swallowed his fear of the dragon and dove into the first piece of meat he had seen in 
months. However, that was not an easy task. He could not lift the leg, it was too large. He 
attempted to pull some hot meat from the bone, but it burned his fingers.
“Do you not own a knife?” Farloft inquired between mouthfuls, when he noticed 
James’ difficulties.
“No, sir.”
The dragon pointed with a leg bone toward the other opening in the cave wall 
behind James. “Go through there. Help yourself to whichever one you like.”
James obeyed the dragon’s instructions. He went down the tunnel off the cavern to 
find a treasure trove of articles at the end. There were knives, and swords, and gemstone 
studded goblets, and gold plates, and chests full of an array of lovely, sparkling jewels 
with strings of pearls, and filigreed crowns, and scepters of gold, and....and....and.
James’ eyes were dazzled by all the shine. He chose a dagger close at hand with a 
jewel studded hilt and dragon heads on the guards. He turned to go back to the main cave 
to eat, when he spotted a ruby. Its sparkle lured him like worm to a fish. He picked it up 
off the pile of mixed gems and jewelry, surprised to find it warm in his hand rather than 
cold. James held it up to let the light reflect off it. Its deep red surface was so large he 
could see the better part of his face in it. It seemed to talk to him; “Take me. Take me for 
your own.” He had no use for a ruby, especially a ruby this size. He could never show its 
beauty to anyone, they would know he stole it. He could never sell it, for the same 
reason. What could a peasant boy do with a ruby like this? James did not know. He only 
knew he had to have it. He shoved it deep into his pocket and returned to the main cave.
- JAMES AND THE DRAGON BECOME FRIENDS -
James burped in satisfaction as the warm meat turned over in his now-full stomach.
Farloft had finished his portion of the elk ages ago. He lay on his stomach drawing 
in the sand by the pool with one giant claw.
“Would you like the rest of this?” James offered. The elk’s leg was far too much for 
him to eat even if he had been starving.
“If you are sure you do not want it?” Farloft replied.
“I’m sure. I couldn’t eat another bite,” James assured the dragon.
Farloft took the leg and began to gnaw on it absently as he talked. “Now tell me, 
James,” he began between bites. “How did you come to be at the bog alone? Have you no 
family?”
“No, sir,” James replied. He moved to the pool and began to clean the knife with the 
fine handle. “My father and sister died in the plague this past year.”
Farloft gulped down the last of the elk and resumed his place on the sand. He lay 
with his head on his front feet looking ever so much like an overgrown green dog. “Have 
you no mother?”
“She died when I was born.” James set to polishing the knife with the edge of his 
now dry cape.
“No one at all left to care for you?” Farloft asked.
“No one, but I’m old enough to take care of myself,” James asserted.
Farloft did not remind the boy of his near death in the bog as proof he was not as 
capable of caring for himself as he attested.
The dragon noted the care James took to clean the knife. “You know, you chose 
well,” Farloft indicated approval of the knife with a shift of his eye ridge. “King Ludlow 
gave me that dagger upon our victory over the Baldars.”
“You fought with King Ludlow?” James was clearly astonished. He knew the tale of 
the battle of Elgon and the ballad sung every year at the festival of Elgon. He had never 
heard of a dragon in it.
“Aye,” Farloft stretched. When he came to rest again he rolled onto his back staring 
up at the crystal ceiling. “I know, I know,” he said in dismay. “The ballad sung today of 
the battle of Elgon is missing the stanza about our part in the victory.”
“Our part?” James asked even more astounded than before. “There was more than 
one dragon there?”
“Oh yes,” Farloft replied with a sigh of memory. “In those days, there were so many 
dragons that we lived in clans. Each clan had its own leader. All the leaders were there 
that day. All eight of us.” Farloft started to hum and then broke into song.
“When the battle raged un-heeded.
When the Baldars looked to win.
Then the dragons, fire blazing,
Put the battle to an end.”
“King Ludlow was victorious, but the dragons paid a heavy toll. We lost five 
leaders, forced from the air by spear or arrow wounds. A boulder from a catapult hit 
Flyoff and before he could regain the sky, Baldar troops swarmed over him like ants on a 
dead carcass. There were only three of us left after the battle. The leaders are the fathers 
of the clan. Without them, their clan dies. But, we won,” Farloft said, as he rolled back 
over on his stomach. “King Ludlow knew what a great price the dragons paid for his 
victory. The King gave us all he had to give. To me, that dagger you hold. The same 
dagger he fought with that day. To Fireall he gave his shield and to Fairgain he gave his 
sword. He was a good and honest man. Sometimes I wish humans lived as long as 
dragons. Life would be so much simpler.”
“I’m sorry about your friends’ deaths.” James moved closer to Farloft and laid the 
knife at the dragon’s feet.
“Thank you, James. But that was long ago. You may keep the dagger while you are 
here.”
James picked it back up and slipped it into his belt. It was heavy and made him feel 
safe. No one in the village owned a weapon as grand as this dagger. But, it also made him 
feel ashamed. Farloft trusted him with something that held great value, in both money 
and memories. It made James think about the ruby he stole from the dragon’s treasure 
room. James pushed the thought from his mind. The dragon probably stole the ruby in the 
first place. Everyone knew dragons kept stolen treasures. Then again, maybe it too had 
been a gift from some admirer. James was thinking there was a lot he probably did not 
know about dragons.
“The other things in the cavern where I got the knife, were they all gifts?” James 
asked in order to relieve his conscience. Stealing something already stolen was not the 
same as stealing someone’s property first hand.
“All gifts,” Farloft confirmed to James’ dismay. “Dragons and man used to work 
and fight together for the good of the kingdom. Humans are great gift givers and they 
found out quickly that dragons love shiny, sparkling things. Anything that sparkles or 
glitters can be seen a million different ways by a dragon. Like here,” Farloft pointed out. 
“What makes the cave light?”
“The light from the cones on the crystals above,” James answered, proud of himself 
for already having figured out this riddle.
“Aye, but more.” Farloft explained. “Look at the pool’s surface.”
Farloft was right. The pool reflected the colored crystals on the ceiling. James had 
failed to notice that while in the pool.
“And the walls,” Farloft pointed out.
The slate walls of the cave danced with small brightly colored rainbows of color. To 
James’ surprise he had missed these too.
“They are created by the refraction of the light from the cones off the crystals,” 
Farloft explained further. “I love this place. It is even better than the gift chamber.”
James shifted uncomfortably at the mention of the chamber again. The ruby felt 
heavy in his pocket. The dragon saved his life, fed him, given him the jewel encrusted 
dagger to use, and he had stolen from him. If only he could put it back. But, what excuse 
could he make for returning to the treasure chamber?
Farloft noticed James uneasiness and in misinterpreting it, he rose to his feet. “Best 
get you home. It will be dark soon.”
James followed Farloft down the tunnel the dragon came through earlier, to another 
chamber which opened directly to the outdoors. Snow fell heavily. It swirled around the 
mouth of the cave, already forming drifts close to a foot deep.
Farloft sat down heavily. “Well, I suppose you are stuck with my company for a bit 
longer. You certainly cannot walk home in this and if I flew you, you would freeze before 
we got there.”
“Wouldn’t you freeze too?” James asked with curiosity.
“Dragons do not experience hot or cold, James. We have our own internal regulators 
that keep us at just the right temperature.”
It was the first of many things James would learn about, and from the dragon, that 
winter while he shared Farloft’s hospitality during the worst snows the Kingdom had 
seen in many years.
- JAMES WORKS FOR HIS SUPPER -
“Farloft, STOP!” James yelled in alarm.
Farloft was standing on his hind feet violently scraping his shoulder on the crystal 
ceiling. The rocks were crumbling from the roof onto the floor below. The only safe 
place from the fallout from above was the archway to the inner cave where James stood.
“What is the matter with you,” James shouted above the sound of the pelting rocks.
“Itch,” Farloft said and kept rubbing. “Can’t quite reach...”
“Stop,” James called. “Let me do it before you bring down the whole ceiling on us.”
Farloft came back down on his all fours. “You would do that?”
“Of course,” James said as he moved closer to Farloft. “Give me a way up.”
Farloft lowered his head and put out a front paw as a step. James vaulted from the 
back of the dragon’s foot to Farloft’s head and then slid down his neck to where his 
wings met at his shoulder blades. He scratched as hard as he could. Farloft huffed out a 
pillar of smoke as he arched his back into James’ scratch.
“A couple of your scales are loose. Does it hurt?”
“No, that’s the problem,” Farloft explained. “Can you pull them off?”
James grabbed hold of one of the large scales. “This won’t hurt?”
“No, go ahead.”
James yanked off the scale and dropped it. It fell with a slight drift to the floor. 
“You all right?”
“Much better,” Farloft sighed.
“Hold on there’s one more lose.” James peeled off the second scale and dropped it.
“Thank you, lad. That is so much better. It’s just a spot I can’t reach.” Farloft 
relaxed under James’ continued scratching.
James finally stopped. Scratching Farloft was like rubbing your finger tips on a rasp. 
“How’s that?”
“Great, thank you.” Farloft almost purred.
James slid down Farloft’s wing to the floor of the cave and walked over to the edge 
of the pool. “Is this good enough?” James asked, as he held up the silver punch bowl. 
Farloft had been bringing him silver pieces from his treasure room to polish before 
stopping to scratch.
“Excellent!” Farloft almost roared. He lifted it up to the light of the sparkling 
ceiling. “I can see myself in it.”
James was fast finding that there was nothing a dragon liked better than something 
that sparkled. Farloft literally glowed when he looked at a favorite piece.
“It is renewed to its old shine.” Farloft reached behind himself and pulled out 
another large punchbowl and handed it to James. It was as black with tarnish as the one 
he held was bright.
“Not another one,” James moaned. “Why did they give you so many punchbowls? 
Do dragons even drink punch?”
“I suppose I would if it was offered,” Farloft replied.
James sat in the sand by the pool looking at the corroded bowl.
“Now, James,” Farloft scolded. “You wanted to repay me for the use of the knife I 
gave you, did you not?”
“Yes,” the boy answered. “But, I didn’t know it would mean polishing your 
treasure. I feel like a kitchen maid.”
“It is something I cannot do for myself. It is a great favor to me. Besides, you should 
not picture yourself a kitchen maid, but rather a squire. Who do you think keeps the 
knight’s armor polished?”
James smiled and set to rubbing the sand over the tarnished pot. “How about 
another story to pass the time, Farloft.” The dragon’s stories had been entertaining them 
for days. James had never heard a better storyteller, even from the traveling bards at the 
yearly festivals that drew so many from hill and dale.
“Let me see,” Farloft began. “Since we were discussing silver, I will tell you of 
James the Blacksmith,” Farloft announced.
“Oh no, Farloft. Not a smithy,” James protested. The thought of a blacksmith 
brought the village smithy to mind. He was a mean, carousing, drunk with his two front 
teeth missing, to say nothing of the stealing. Not suitable at all for a legend. “Tell about 
another knight or someone else worth a tale.”
“James the Blacksmith is a fine story and well worth the telling,” Farloft retorted. 
His eye ridges pulled together in a frown of defense. James could see how people got the 
wrong ideas about dragons. Farloft really could look fierce without even trying. “Now 
keep polishing and listen.”
Farloft cleared his throat and as he gazed into the pool his story of James the 
Blacksmith began to unfold.
- JAMES - THE BLACKSMITH-
“James, the Blacksmith lived with his wife and eight children in the small village of 
Cornover. He had to shoe many horses and fix many a wagon and hand tool, in order to 
care for his large family. But James was more than just a smithy, he was an artisan. The 
queen herself had discovered his talent and kept him well supplied with silver from the 
kingdom’s mine in Leftland.
“The smithy fashioned beautiful bridles from the silver which the queen gave him. 
In turn, the queen would give these bridles as gifts to her handmaids and as prizes to the 
victors of the tournaments held each year on the castle grounds.
“James’ work was much admired by all who saw it. However, beauty was not all the 
smithy fashioned into his bridles. Some said that he placed a bit of magic in them as well. 
All who owned one said that their horse was far more responsive when the silver bridles 
were put on then before their use. So the rumors began to spread that James placed a 
magical touch on his work when he forged the silver. Magic that gave the riders better 
communication, through the bridles, with their mount.”
“Was it really magic?” James asked with wonder in his voice.
“Wait and see.” Farloft replied. “Now, allow me to continue, please.”
The boy leaned forward in anticipation idly rinsing the pot in the pool.
“This was in the time of King Ludlow. His queen, and the queen who commissioned 
the bridles from James the Blacksmith, was Queen Harrah. Queen Harrah had been queen 
for many years, but the royal couple had yet to be blessed with a child. So, it was with 
great joy the king announced one spring the queen was pregnant. That Christmas, or the 
New Year at the latest, there would be an heir to the throne. The whole kingdom spoke of 
nothing else for weeks. Their words filled the air like cottonwood fluff on a breezy day. 
Speculation and bets were made as to the date of birth, the sex and the color of the eyes 
of the royal addition. The handmaids whispered about what they thought revealed the 
child’s specifics. One day, they said the queen carried the child high, so it would be a 
girl. The next day, she carried it low, so it must surely be a boy. In all cases, her carrying 
was a burden, for the queen was far too old to bear a child safely.
“When the child did come, late in the same year, it was a large, healthy boy. 
Unfortunately, it was also that same birth that caused the good queen’s death.
“King Ludlow mourned his queen for months. It was said the only joy he received 
during that time was from the smiles of his son and heir, which he named William after 
his dead wife’s father.”
James stopped polishing and set the bowl down.
“Yes?” Farloft asked interrupting his story.
“My sister said that was the way my father was with me when my mother died,” 
James said.
“Your father was a wise man,” Farloft pronounced. “Some men turn from the child 
of a dead wife. They mistakenly blame the child for their loss. Such was not the case with 
King Ludlow or your father. They both saw the right of things.”
James nodded and wiped a tear which threatened to fall with his sleeve. Speaking of 
his father still touched his heart and renewed the pain of the loss of his family.
Farloft laid quietly awaiting James’ signal to resume his tale. The dragon had lost 
many close friends and family in all his years. He knew one needed time to grieve.
“What happened to William?” James prompted finally, picking up the bowl again 
and working sand into the fine detail of its carved designs.
“Well, a wet nurse was found for the child. Her name was Cassandra and she had 
been married to one of the captains in King Ludlow’s army. The captain was killed by a 
Baldar raiding party and his wife Cassandra was left with a new baby and no husband to 
care for her or her child. Her situation much improved when she volunteered to suckle the 
king’s child. She moved into the castle and was set up in her own compartments in the 
nursery wing.
“Two years passed with the King seeing Cassandra daily when he came to visit his 
son in the nursery. Slowly, over the two years, the King and Cassandra came to like and 
then eventually love each other. In the third year after the death of Queen Harrah, King 
Ludlow married Cassandra.
“Almost from the start, all was not well with this royal marriage. For you see, 
Queen Cassandra was a jealous female and she taught her son, Dwayne, to be jealous too.
“Both William and Dwayne were raised side by side. Schooled together, trained 
together, and disciplined together. No matter whether Dwayne was a better horseman or 
archer; no matter whether William was slower in math and science than Dwayne; it was 
always known and repeated over and over, so it would not be forgotten, that William was 
to inherit the throne upon the death of their father, King Ludlow.
“Queen Cassandra, in her jealousy, wanted her son to be king and she set about 
poisoning Dwayne’s mind toward William. As the years passed, the rivalry between the 
boys became a topic at court and even spread beyond the castle walls. The king did 
everything he could not to show favoritism between the two lads, but facts were facts, 
and one day William would be king.”
“I thought this was a story about a blacksmith and his magic,” James interrupted. He 
was just getting interested in the smithy when Farloft had gone off talking about dull 
royalty and their feuds.
“I am getting back to that,” Farloft soothed. “Now where was I? Oh yes, the two 
lads.
“William and Dwayne were both young men of 19 years the year the Baldars began 
their onslaught against the kingdom’s borders in earnest. It was not long before the king 
realized he would have to wage an all out war against the invaders before he was rid of 
them for good. He spent many sleepless nights worrying about his kingdom, his people 
and his family. If he were to die now, he was sure that the kingdom would be split apart 
by his two warring sons.
“It was one night, very late after the moon had set, that he remembered James the 
Blacksmith and his magic bridles. The King thought if it was true the bridles were magic, 
perhaps James could fashion a sword and shield which would contain enough magic to 
keep a king safe from his enemies and allow him enough time to straighten out this 
problem with his sons before he died.
“King Ludlow went to the smithy the next day. He commissioned a sword, shield 
and dagger, with his crest, to be made over the next fortnight. The smithy was reluctant to 
take the job. He had never made weapon or shield. Besides, his uncertainty of the correct 
way to fashion such metal, he was also a very pious man and did not believe violence was 
the answer to any quarrel. He did not want to fashion a weapon to kill men. The King 
pleaded and then finally had to order the smithy to make the weapons and shield before 
he stomped out of James’ shop.
“Every night, for fourteen nights after the King’s departure from the shop, James 
toiled over the sword, shield and dagger for the King’s commission. And every night, 
James the Blacksmith cried for what he knew these weapons would be used. His tears fell 
upon the sword and the shield and the dagger and were hammered and ground and 
polished into their metal.
“When King Ludlow came to fetch the weapons and shield, he was pleased with 
their workmanship and paid James the smithy well for his hours of toil. Little did the 
King know that he should have paid James far more for his tears than his craftsmanship. 
For you see, later, when King Ludlow went into battle, he was invincible. The shield, 
polished with the tears of a pious man, protected him from every attack. His sword and 
dagger found the heart of the enemy almost on their own. Battle after battle was won. The 
Baldars retreated to lick their wounds and regroup to attack another day.
“By then, William and Dwayne were 20 years of age and longing to prove 
themselves in battle. The King resisted allowing them this until he was informed by his 
scouts that the Baldars were making one final push with a force that far outnumbered the 
kingdom’s defenses.”
“Was that the battle of Elgon?” James asked.
“Aye, it was. So you know what happened.”
“Yes,” James answered. “Young Prince William was killed and Dwayne was to 
inherit the throne except he died before the King of a fever.”
“That is correct,” Farloft affirmed. “But, what you do not know is the most 
important part of the story.”
Farloft rose and went to the other side of the pool to lap a drink from the stream that 
ran into it. He looked up at the ceiling as if it were the stars in the sky and then continued.
“That night, after the battle of Elgon, there was a rumor round the camps that 
Dwayne could have saved Prince William, but failed to intervene so he would be the next 
heir to the throne. This rumor came to the King’s ear and he spent a sleepless night 
thinking of the ramifications of this tale if it were true.”
Farloft circled back around the pool and lay down once again by James as he 
worked.
“He had thought to announce the next day that Dwayne would be heir to the throne, 
now that William was dead. Could he trust his kingdom to a man who might not have 
gone to the aid of another who was like a brother to him? King Ludlow did not want to 
believe this ugly rumor. But who was to know if it be rumor or truth? There was one 
thing that King Ludlow knew for sure; he could not take a chance on making such a man 
heir and then giving him the ability to be invincible too. For if Dwayne inherited the 
kingdom, he would also inherit the sword, shield and dagger of the King.
“So that is how it came to pass that King Ludlow bestowed his magic weapons upon 
we three dragons. He knew if they were in our care, they would not fall into the wrong 
hands.”
James looked down at the dagger stuck in his belt. “This is that same dagger?”
“The same. Made by good James the Blacksmith years before your birth or your 
father’s birth. Given to me in trust by the finest king that ever ruled, King Ludlow.”
James came over and sat down on Farloft’s hind foot. Farloft curled his tail about 
the boy’s legs in affection. James sat with his back to Farloft, his head down. He removed 
the knife from his belt. “I don’t deserve to use this, Farloft.”
James threw one leg over the dragon’s tail so he could look at him and be honest to 
his face. “This is a dagger for kings and valiant men. I am just a peasant boy.”
“All kings and valiant men were once boys,” Farloft said softly.
“Yes, but I am not worthy.” James could feel the ruby against his thigh in his 
pocket. It felt as though it were burning a hole in his skin. “I am not even honest.”
“What do you mean?” Farloft asked.
James slid down off the dragon. “I stole from you,” he said, as he pulled the ruby 
from his pocket. “I took this ruby from your treasure the first day. I don’t even know 
why. I just wanted it. You don’t have to believe me, but I was going to put it back. You 
just haven’t left me alone long enough to do that.” James placed the jewel on the sand. 
Then laid the dagger beside it. “I’m sorry, Farloft. You’re the first one to care about me 
since my father and sister died and I betrayed you. Punish me however you like. I deserve 
whatever you do.”
Farloft poked at the ruby with one long claw. “I knew you had it. This ruby has been 
singing to me for days. I guess you did not hear it. That is fortunate for you. There is a 
wonderful tale about this ruby and how it came to me,” Farloft began in his story telling 
voice.
“I don’t want to hear the story of the ruby, Farloft,” James protested. “Don’t you 
understand? I just told you I stole from you.”
“Yes, yes, I know,” Farloft replied tolerantly. “But you are sorry, are you not?”
“Well, yes, of course I am,” James said haltingly.
“Well, then that is all there is to be said about that.” Farloft pushed James back to sit 
on his hind foot with his nose. “Now listen carefully and I will tell you the story of the 
ruby, and how I came to have it, and why you stole it.”
“But how can you tell me why I stole it if I don’t know myself?”
“Because, I know the story of the ruby and you do not. Now stop talking and do me 
a favor, give a good scratch between my shoulder blades.”
James climbed up on Farloft’s back and scratched him hard where his wings met his 
back. He scratched so hard a number of the dragon’s scales flaked off and fell to the 
ground.
“Ummmm...That is good. A little lower James,” Farloft requested as he seemed to 
melt into the sand. James could feel the dragon getting lower and flatter on the ground 
below him.
A small puff of smoke escaped Farloft’s nostrils. “Thank you that will do, James.”
Farloft rolled gently onto his side and wrapped his tail round him. James climbed 
down and cuddled in the pocket between the dragon’s tail and side, atop his hind foot, 
polishing the pot was forgotten for the moment. James snuggled his toes under Farloft’s 
tail for warmth.
“Comfy?” Farloft asked. He really was growing to love this young lad. It had been 
many years since the dragon had anyone with whom he could enjoy a pleasant 
conversation and a good scratch. It was so much fun to pass on the history of the 
kingdom to ears that had never before heard the stories. As the storm raged outside, they 
sat or lay in the “crystal room,” and talked, and talked, and talked. In truth, Farloft talked 
and James listened, but James listened well and Farloft basked in the attention the boy 
gave his stories.
“Well, go ahead,” James prompted impatiently. He had been with the dragon only 
days, but they were the most wondrous days of his life. Farloft knew everyone and 
everything that ever happened in the kingdom since before man came here. The dragon 
really had known many men named James and all of them were the stuff of legend, tall, 
strong, trustworthy, and brave.
- THE TALE OF THE ZONGULDAK RUBY -
“Zonguldak is a land far to the East. It has a parched and arid landscape where the 
air itself almost burns the skin and there is no relief from the sun’s heat. It is as different 
from our cool climate here, as water is from sand.
“The people of Zonguldak are olive skinned. On a daily basis, they wear long robes 
with hoods, to keep off the sun, which are made of a light gauzy material. For special 
occasions, or if they are very wealthy, they wear a material called ‘silk’ woven from the 
threads made by tiny little worms.
“Is that where you got the ruby?” James interrupted.
“No,” Farloft replied. “Let us just say the ruby came to me.” Farloft cleared his 
throat.
“In Zonguldak there lived a young man named Turan. Turan lived with his father, 
mother, two sisters, and grandfather. Turan’s family was known as the finest makers of 
silk throughout Zonguldak. His grandfather was the head of the family and the business.
“One fine day, in the cool of early morning, Turan was out riding when he heard the 
most beautiful song. It was not that of a bird, nor quite human either. He followed the 
sound to the bank of the river Banzees. There on the sand he found the ruby, and to his 
surprise, realized that it was from the depths of the jewel the glorious song arose.
“The stone was not nearly as beautiful then as it is now. For it had been tumbled and 
tossed in the river, for no one knew how long, before it came to rest there on the shore.
“Turan, who was enthralled by the ruby’s song, picked it up and took it home. He 
did not tell anyone about the jewel and was surprised to find that no one else except him 
heard its lovely song. At night he would sit and polish it for hours as it sang endlessly to 
him. Over the weeks, and then months that followed, the ruby came to look as it does 
today from the hours of toil Turan put into polishing its surface.
“While Turan polished, and listened to the ruby’s song, he would daydream of 
things all young men think about. He was anxious for the time when he would run the 
family business and have all the money he wanted instead of the moderate allowance his 
father gave him. He dreamed of the changes he would make and the silks he would 
produce. He had grand ideas for designs that were not the old traditional ones his 
grandfather and father produced.
“Unfortunately, Turan’s wishes and dreams came true all too soon. I say 
unfortunately because he came to be in charge of the family silk trade through misfortune 
of the worst kind. Turan’s grandfather unexpectedly fell ill and died. At the reading of his 
grandfather’s Will, Turan received the family business rather than his father. This so 
angered the old man he swore Turan cast a spell on his grandfather to obtain the family 
business and the fortune that went with it. Turan’s father disowned him. He took Turan’s 
mother, and two sisters, and left. Where they went, Turan never knew. The young man 
mourned not only for the loss of his grandfather, but also for the loss of all his family. He 
never saw them again.
“The next time he heard the ruby’s song, he wondered if he had inadvertently 
bewitched his grandfather. But, these thoughts were short lived.”
Farloft leaned down and scratched his cheek in thought with a large green paw.
“Turan now ran the business by himself. Also, with his inheritance he instantly 
became one of the richest men in the land of Zonguldak, and one of the most eligible 
bachelors. Fathers came from far and wide to tell him of their daughter’s beauty, of their 
fine cooking and cleaning talents, and their ability to bear him many sons. Some women 
were even so bold as to come to his shop on pretense of buying silks only to flaunt 
themselves before him.
“Turan saw none of them. His eyes saw only the Sultan’s beautiful daughter. He had 
never met her, only seen her on the balcony of her room overlooking the palace gardens. 
Many a warm night Turan scaled the garden wall. He sat concealed in the limbs of a lotus 
tree watching her raven hair sway lightly in the breeze; her gown hugging to every 
glorious curve of her body. Now that he was rich, Turan dared to dream of having the 
princess for his wife.”
James squirmed uncomfortably at Farloft’s side. He didn’t know what to make of all 
this talk of girls and their habits. He far preferred the stories of knights, royalty, even 
blacksmiths.
Farloft didn’t seem to notice James’ disinterest. As always he pushed on with this 
story, lost in far off memories of people and places long dead.
“And so Turan turned away all the fathers and all the other women of the city who 
came to call. Instead, he sat listening to the song of the ruby as he polished and dreamed 
of a life with the princess.
“It was not long after he thought of the princess as a bride that her father, the Sultan, 
paid a visit to Turan’s shop and offered his daughter in marriage to Turan. The young 
man and his dream princess were married a week later.
“However, dreams do not always come true as you imagine them. Like Turan’s 
dream of wealth which brought about the death of his grandfather and his family’s 
desertion, his dream of the princess soured too. For though his wife possessed beauty 
beyond compare, she was ill tempered, spoiled and a nag. Her meals were never quite to 
her liking. The servants never kept the house clean enough. Her jewels did not sparkle 
enough. Even her silks, the finest in all of Zonguldak, were not soft enough. The older 
Turan’s wife became the more negative and mean she grew.
“As time went by, Turan began to dream another dream. He now realized the ruby 
really was the source of his daydreams coming true in their own twisted fashion. So he 
tried his best to dream something the ruby could not destroy. He thought if he kept the 
dream simple and not involving anyone else, he could make it work. So he dreamed only 
of getting away from his troubles. As the years passed the simple dream became a little 
clearer. He would go West to where it was cool; where a man could walk in the rain and 
be surrounded by green fields instead of deserts.
“One day a pale skinned man, from a land far to the West, came to Turan’s shop. He 
invited Turan to come home with him and to bring his silk worms to make the fine silks 
of his trade in the new land far to the West. He said Turan would be a rich man; that no 
one in his land had ever seen fabric as delicately woven as Turan’s silks.
“Turan saw his chance to escape Zonguldak and all his problems. He carefully 
packed several crates with silk worms, settled his affairs, bid his wife goodbye, and with 
the ruby in his pocket, sailed West with the pale skinned stranger.
“The voyage was long and arduous. The sea tossed the ship and threatened to sink it 
more than once. Turan was never more thrilled to see land than when he reached the 
shores of our kingdom.”
“He came here?” James asked with surprise.
“Aye,” Farloft answered. “But, his landing was not as he wished. When the crates of 
his precious silk worms were opened, he found they were all dead. Seawater seeping into 
the containers drowned his irreplaceable cargo. Turan finally came West, but the ruby 
destroyed this dream too. Turan was a pauper in his new land with little more than the 
clothes on his back.
Farloft yawned and rested his head on his front paws. “He wandered aimlessly 
through the countryside as a beggar half out of his mind from his misfortune, until he 
came close enough to my lair that I heard the ruby’s song. Just like Turan years before, I 
followed the song to find an old man with white hair and beard, warming himself by a 
small fire in the edge of the woods. Turan held the ruby in his hands, still enticed by its 
song.
“Once he got over the shock of meeting a dragon, Turan, told me the story of the 
ruby and his misfortunes. I offered to relieve him of his jeweled burden. The ruby’s song 
was lovely, but it could not destroy a dragon’s dreams. Even after all these years of trial 
and ill fortune, Turan was still reluctant to part with the ruby. We talked long into the 
night before he finally handed over the stone to me for safe keeping. And that is how I 
came into possession of the Zonguldak Ruby.”
“What happened to Turan?” James asked, as he stretched out at Farloft’s side, 
eliciting a big yawn.
“He lived out his life not far from here working the soil in peace at last.”
“The ruby did talk to me,” James affirmed. “That must be why I stole it. It made me. 
It bewitched me like it did Turan.”
“It talked to you?” Farloft asked, as though he needed the fact repeated in order to 
believe it.
“Yes, it said ‘take me’.”
“The ruby of Zonguldak does not talk, James. It sings.” Farloft shook his head from 
side to side. “That was not the ruby talking, that was your inner greed voicing its desires, 
much as Turan’s greed worked its way into his dreams years ago.”
James looked away in embarrassment.
“Perhaps you should stick with your original apology for taking the ruby,” Farloft 
suggested. Farloft nuzzled the boy gently in the chest. “Come now. I have run on too 
long. It is time for some sleep.”
James hugged up against the dragon’s side. “I’m sorry, Farloft.”
“I know, James. The best lesson learned is one learned from your own mistakes. 
Believe me. A thief cannot be trusted and trust is the one thing we all crave. Remember 
this time, but do not dwell on the negative. Instead, remember what you have learned of 
honesty, trust and loyalty these last few days and you will grow into a fine man worthy to 
someday carry the dagger of King Ludlow.”
Farloft nuzzled James again and raised the corners of his lips revealing many huge 
sharp teeth in a dragon’s equivalent of a smile. James hugged Farloft’s nose in reply. 
When James released him, the dragon laid his head down, using the end of his tail for a 
pillow, and quietly hummed them both to sleep.
- WIZARD’S BREW -
The lights in the wizard’s tower burned day and night. Laval’s heart contained only 
hatred in it and plans for revenge. He returned from his meeting with Farloft to find his 
only child dead. He had not been in time to save his beloved daughter. If Farloft had not 
been so stubborn...If the dragon had just complied the first time he asked for the wing 
portion, Megan would still be alive.
In spite of his grief, he brewed the potion and others that were ill were now 
recovering. In the process, he discovered a very interesting property of the wing.
He wanted revenge against Farloft. The wizard could not kill the dragon even with 
his considerable magic, but he could make the dragon miserable for the rest of his life. 
The best revenge he could think of was worse than killing the dragon - far worse.
With the use of the unusual properties of the wing and by combining it with other 
elements, he believed he could succeed in changing Farloft from a dragon into a mere 
human. It was the worse punishment he could think of for the dragon. Farloft would end 
his days as a tired old man in a village of poor peasants trying to convince everyone he 
once was a powerful dragon.
He only needed another portion of Farloft’s wing for the potion and somehow he 
would get it. Laval would have his revenge.
- THE WAY HOME -
Farloft stood at the outside entrance to his cave, his nose stuck upward in the cool 
morning air. The day promised sunshine and warmth - unexpected considering the land 
remained locked in winter. The snow that was several feet deep earlier was melting fast, 
leaving riverlets of water and mud puddles everywhere.
James had been with Farloft over two weeks. Now that the weather was exhibiting 
its milder side, Farloft thought it was time James headed home. The boy did not want to 
leave.
“Your people will be worried,” Farloft said.
“I told you, I don’t have any people,” James reminded the dragon. “Can’t I stay here 
with you?”
Farloft looked down at James. The dragon’s eyes were filled with a mixture of duty 
and concern, tinged with regret. “This is not the proper place for a boy. You belong with 
your own kind.”
“But, I want to stay here,” James protested. He threw his arms around Farloft’s 
stump of a front leg. “Please, Farloft. I want to stay with you.” He buried his head against 
the dragon’s leg.
Farloft felt the wetness of the boy’s tears on his scaly skin. He would like to have 
given in. He loved James and wanted the boy’s company forever, but that was not 
possible. James was young and needed the company of other humans. Besides, living 
with a dragon could prove dangerous for the boy. Humans had grown to hate and fear 
dragons over the years and that included anyone who associated with a dragon.
“I am sorry, James, but you must go. It is for your own good.” Farloft nudged James 
away from his leg with his nose. “I have greatly enjoyed your company these last weeks. 
I assure you I will never forget our time together. It will be quite lonely here without 
you.”
“Then let me stay,” James pleaded with tears brimming in his eyes.
Farloft shook his head. “It is dangerous for you here. There are those who hunt 
dragons and would think nothing of cutting down a boy who stood between them and 
their prize.”
James took the dagger from his belt and offered it to Farloft. “Here.”
Farloft shook his head. “You have more use for it then I ever would. It will keep 
you safe. Keep it hidden and never use it in anger.”
James, knowing he could never win this battle to stay, tucked the knife back in his 
belt and threw his arms around Farloft’s leg again. “I love you, Farloft,” he mumbled into 
his leg. Then he abruptly let go and ran from Farloft down the steep slope in the direction 
the dragon indicated the village was when James asked earlier.
Farloft watched reluctantly as James half ran, half tumbled to the foot of the 
mountain. The boy never once looked back. When he reached the level below, he headed 
straight for the trees and the village far beyond. It took all of Farloft’s great dragon 
strength to keep from calling him back.
- FARLOFT WORRIES -
Not long after James left, Farloft began to worry if he sufficiently warned James 
against the dangers of telling anyone he stayed with a dragon? Had he impressed upon 
the boy enough that he should keep his dagger hidden under his tunic? Should he have 
even given the boy the weapon? It would be a great temptation for thieves and cutthroats. 
It might put the boy in more danger than it did him good. Maybe he should not have let 
James go alone. It was a long way to the village.
Farloft sniffed the air. No more snow for a time. No rain. He lay his head down on 
his front feet again. It was warm in the sun on the rock ledge above the entrance to the 
cave.
He told himself he was worrying for nothing. James was a smart lad. He would be 
all right. Farloft sighed deeply. He just could not help worrying about his new young 
friend.
- JAMES ARRIVES HOME -
James felt very hot and tired when he walked into the village late in the day, just as 
the sun was starting to set. He ran most of the way in a kind of blind hopelessness. He 
looked a mess; his face streaked and stained from his tears and his clothes muddy from 
numerous stumbles and falls on the slippery, sodden terrain.
A group of half starved children, outside one of the huts on the edge of the village, 
sounded the alarm. The villagers poured from their homes to see the return of one they 
thought lost to the freezing weather of the past two weeks.
James felt somewhat guilty when he saw the gaunt faces of the people. Where he 
had been warm and well fed by Farloft, the storm of the last few weeks had taken its toll 
on the villagers. They all looked hungry and some had deep mucous filled coughs.
A woman who used to be one of his sister’s friends touched his arm. “We thought 
you were lost. It was the second day of the storm ‘fore anyone even seen there was no 
fire at your hearth. By then it was too late to search for ya.”
“Where ya been?” a voice in the crowd called.
“How’d ya survive the storm?” another asked closer at hand.
“I found a cave and sheltered there,” James replied.
“There are no caves close by,” the blacksmith challenged, his face so close James 
could smell his stale breath through his rotten teeth.
“I got lost in the snow,” James explained. “I wandered far away.”
The woman who spoke earlier touched his face gently, its fullness well illuminated 
by the setting sun. “Whatcha been eatin’, James? You’re as round as a tree squirrel.”
“Nuts and berries,” James replied and knew immediately his lie would be caught.
“No berries this time of year,” the smithy said in an accusing voice. “Where ya 
really been?” He asked and at the same time jerked James around to face him.
“In a cave, I swear,” James repeated.
“Hey, what’s that?” the smithy asked, as the last rays of sunlight glinted off the hilt 
of James’ knife.
James covered the dagger with his hand. “Nothing.”
“Nothing?” the smithy asked indignantly. “Give it here. Let us have a look.”
James reluctantly removed the dagger from his belt.
“Lordy, look at that.” The smithy exclaimed on seeing the brilliant dagger. “We got 
us a thief.”
“I am not a thief,” James protested. “Farloft gave it to me.” The dragon’s name just 
slipped out. James was sorry the moment he said it.
“Who’s this Farloft?” someone demanded. “I never heared of such.”
Murmurs of assertion rumbled through in the crowd now huddled in a half circle 
before James.
James reflected for a moment on Farloft’s warnings earlier in the day, but could not 
come up with a plausible story now that he had slipped up. He decided telling the 
villagers the truth was the best course of action.
“Farloft is the dragon we sometimes see shadow of on a clear day.”
The woman next to him stepped back in fright. “You been with a dragon?” she 
asked in disbelief.
“Well, yes.” James instantly realized the mistake he made in telling them about the 
dragon. Farloft warned him. Why hadn’t he listened?
“Why didn’t he eat ya?” someone demanded, their tone gruff and accusatory.
“Dragons don’t eat people,” James replied. He noticed everyone had stepped back 
away from him, not just the woman.
“Everyone knows dragons eat people,” Tithe said, at the front of the crowd.
“No, Farloft says....” James did not get the opportunity to finish his sentence.
“He talked to ya?” a voice exclaimed in disbelief.
“He’s bewitched,” someone else shrieked.
“Kill him ‘fore he turns into a dragon and eats us all!”
“No,” James cried.
The smithy stuck his meaty fist at James’ face. The magical dagger jumped into his 
hand and immediately came up of its own accord and sliced the smithy’s arm to the bone. 
The smithy cried out in pain and surprise.
The crowd rushed forward in one huge mass. James stumbled backward in an 
attempt to escape them the dagger falling accidentally from his hand. The smithy’s son 
took up the dagger and his strong unrelenting hand caught James’ arm. James felt the 
pain of his own dagger’s steel as Tithe plunged it home into his chest. James fell back in 
a scream of agony as the rest of the crowd over took him.
One instant the setting sun was lighting the crowd descending on James, the next, 
something huge was silhouetted against the sky casting a shadow over them all.
It was Farloft diving from his place on an air current high above.
His worries about James had taken him aloft, but he could see when the crowd 
scattered for the shelter and safety of their homes, that he was too late. James lay prone 
on the ground, the dagger of King Ludlow protruding from his chest.
Farloft landed at his side. “James?”
James’ eyes flickered. The dragon saw recognition and relief in them.
“I am going to take you home,” Farloft announced. Without further word, he picked 
James up and with one mighty thrust of his giant wings rose instantly aloft.
- FARLOFT FLIES FOR HELP -
Farloft eased James down on the rock slab in the cave with the crystal ceiling. The 
boy moaned in pain.
“I never should have made you go,” Farloft muttered under his breath. “Never.”
“It wasn’t your fault,” James assured him. “You told me not to tell about you. It just 
slipped out.” James coughed and writhed in pain. “Cold,” he whispered through teeth that 
had begun to chatter.
Farloft spat a burst of dragon fire at a boulder nearby. The rock took on a red hot 
glow. He studied James with deep concern. The dagger still protruded from the boy’s 
chest. Farloft did not possess the dexterity to remove it. His paws were far to large. The 
boy was going to die if he did not do something soon. Unfortunately, there was only one 
thing he could think to do.
“I am going for help, James.” he said. Farloft was not sure James heard him. The 
boy was lying with his eyes closed now, breathing laboriously. “I will not be gone long,” 
Farloft promised.
He gave the boulder one final blast to make sure the room would stay warm in his 
absence, then he was gone.
- THE WIZARD AND THE DRAGON MEET AGAIN -
“I have come to ask a favor,” Farloft said to the wizard standing on the wall of the 
castle.
When summoned by the guard upon Farloft’s unexpected arrival, the wizard came 
straight here from his bed, still in his dressing gown.
“Yes?” Laval coaxed. A favor granted, would be a favor which needed to be repaid. 
Perhaps this was his chance to obtain the piece of Farloft’s wing he needed for his potion.
“I need your help, Laval. Your healer’s knowledge. A friend of mine is injured.”
“I don’t know much about dragon healing,” Laval said with a note of disdain in his 
voice, as if a dragon were not worth healing.
“He is not a dragon. He is a boy of perhaps ten years of age.” Farloft shifted 
impatiently, his tail switching in agitation. “Will you come?” he asked in a voice slightly 
more fierce then he had intended.
“Of course,” Laval answered with a nod of his head. This might just be the chance 
he needed to avenge his beloved daughter’s death. “I will dress and meet you at the gate.” 
He hastily disappeared from the wall.
Before long he reappeared dressed and mounted on his sorrel steed, his healer’s bag 
hanging from the pommel of his saddle.
Farloft crouched down low before the wizard on his horse. “Come,” he ordered. 
“Horses are too slow. We will fly.” Farloft extended his neck for the wizard and placed a 
large front paw out to assist Laval aboard.
“Very well,” Laval said in surprise and dismounted his horse to remount Farloft.
The dragon must be very fond of this boy to allow him such a liberty as riding him, 
Laval thought. To the wizard’s knowledge, no one had ever ridden a dragon in all of 
history. “Where do we go?” he asked.
“Home,” Farloft answered, and sprang into the air with such urgency Laval almost 
fell from his seat on the dragon’s neck.
- THE WIZARD’S MAGIC -
Laval examined the unconscious boy in the inner cave of the dragon’s lair. The 
wizard recognized King Ludlow’s crest on the dagger’s hilt stuck in the boy’s chest. The 
lad felt pale and cool to the touch, his breathing short and painful, if the look on his face 
was any indication. The front of his tunic was soaked in blood.
“How did this happen?” Laval asked.
“The villagers turned on him. He did nothing to deserve this.” Farloft answered in 
irritation. “Can you help him?” Farloft snapped in irritation.
“I don’t know, Farloft,” Laval said, soothingly. The dragon seemed extremely upset, 
more than any other time Laval could remember. “He has lost quite a lot of blood.”
Farloft began to pace even though there was hardly room for more than a few steps 
before he had to turn, tail thrashing, and retrace his steps. “It was all my fault,” he 
muttered.
“What was?” Laval asked.
“I gave him the dagger,” Farloft shouted in frustration and anger. “I sent him 
home.”
Laval’s mind began to work at a frightening speed. The wizard knew the true tale of 
The Battle of Elgon, even if the story had been altered over the years. If Farloft would fly 
a wizard for the boy, and give the boy the dagger of King Ludlow, he had to be very 
special to the dragon. This was the chance Laval had been waiting for. His time for 
revenge was at hand.
“Calm down, Farloft.” The dragon had the cave so hot from his agitated behavior 
Laval could feel sweat trickling down his back under his robes. “Perhaps....” he said 
thoughtfully.
“Perhaps what?” Farloft demanded.
“Perhaps with your help we can save him.” Laval looked up at the dragon. “I will 
need stronger magic then just my own to stop the bleeding when I remove the dagger. I 
will need another portion of your wing.”
“If that is what you need, that is what you shall have,” Farloft stated. He placed the 
edge of his left wing on the rock slab above James’ head.
Laval removed a wickedly sharp knife from his healer’s bag and began to deftly 
slice a piece of membrane from Farloft’s wing.
“Just enough for the boy,” Farloft warned the wizard.
Laval nodded as he completed his work. “I will place a sleeping spell upon the boy 
to make his pain less. This will not be easy on him.”
Laval placed his palms on the boy’s temples while reciting an incantation quietly 
under his breath. The boy’s breathing became deeper and slowed considerably. The 
wizard then placed both hands on the hilt of the dagger and with one mighty yank, freed 
it from James’ chest. The boy groaned and Farloft shot the wizard a fearsome look. It was 
lost on Laval. He had his head down working on stemming the new flow of blood from 
James’ wound. Laval wrapped the wing membrane around his index finger and with great 
care shoved it into the hole left by the dagger, effectively lining the wound with dragon 
skin. The blood immediately began to coagulate. The flow subsided and eventually 
stopped.
“Help me bandage him,” Laval said.
Farloft held James propped up in a sitting position as Laval placed a bandage on the 
wound and kept it in place by wrapping the full circumference of the boy’s chest. That 
accomplished, Laval washed the remainder of blood from himself and James.
“We need to keep him warm and his thirst quenched,” Laval stated. “He has lost a 
lot of blood.”
Farloft curled up on the slate floor making a bed for James as he had so many nights 
before. “Bring him here.”
Laval carefully lifted the boy and placed him atop Farloft’s hind foot between his 
tail and side as the dragon directed.
“I will see to his warmth,” Farloft said defensively. “There is a cup there in the cleft 
which he uses.” The dragon indicated a golden goblet beside a plate on a small ledge 
nearby. “You can fetch water from the pool outside.”
Laval found it extremely interesting the boy had been here often enough to have a 
goblet from the dragon’s treasure trove for his own personal drinking needs. Where did 
the boy come from and what brought the two together?
“Call me when he wakes and I will fetch some water,” Laval said and with that 
retired to the far side of the cave where he wrapped himself in his robes and feigned 
sleep.
Silently, he fingered the small portion of dragon wing he hastily torn from the larger 
piece he put in James’ wound. He tried to judge its size by touch. It was so small. But, 
dragon magic was very strong. It would be enough. He would have his revenge.
- TOUCH AND GO -
“Laval?” Farloft called softly.
Laval raised his head from off his arms, crossed upon his bent knees.
“He is waking up,” the dragon announced.
Laval grabbed the cup and hurried to the pool just outside the main cave entrance. 
The wizard did quite a bit of thinking before he fell asleep last night. He decided to be as 
helpful and cooperative as possible with Farloft. This would make the dragon even less 
suspicious of his intentions.
Laval returned with the water in time to see the boy open his eyes.
“Farloft,” the lad said, but the effort sent him into a coughing fit.
“Do not try to speak,” the dragon soothed.
Laval lifted the boy’s head and put the cup to his lips. “Just a little,” he cautioned.
When James finished drinking, Laval removed the cup and eased the boy back 
down. The wizard felt his skin. It was still cool and clammy to the touch. He undid the 
bandage about the boy’s chest, which he strategically placed in the front so it would be 
accessible without moving the lad too much. Even so, Laval’s patient moaned in pain.
“Careful, Wizard,” Farloft snapped.
Laval looked up directly into Farloft’s hovering face. “A wound this serious is 
bound to cause pain, Farloft. I take no pleasure in hurting the boy. Now that he is awake, 
and we know that he is mending, I can prepare a potion to ease his pain and help him 
sleep.”
Farloft huffed and retreated a bit.
Laval felt content with the way the injury looked. Although still a gaping hole, he 
saw no swelling, no redness and no further bleeding. Hopefully, all of this indicated the 
lad would recover in time. The magic in the dragon’s wing had done its job. He re-
wrapped the wound and gave the boy another drink.
“What is your name, boy?”
“His name is James,” Farloft answered for him. He looked down paternally at the 
boy. “You lie quiet now. You are going to be all right.”
Laval rummaged through his healers bag. He removed a vial of purplish colored 
powder. The wizard emptied the cup, refilled it with warm water from the hot springs 
pool, sprinkled the powder on top and then swirled it to mix the drink.
“Just a few swallows of this, James,” Laval advised, as he held the cup to the boy’s 
lips again. “It will make you feel better.”
“Thank you,” James said softly. It only took two sips before his eye lids began to 
droop. On the third, they blinked twice. On the fourth, he patted Farloft’s side 
affectionately and drifted off into a peaceful sleep.
- THE BOY, THE DRAGON AND THE WIZARD -
The three in the cave quickly fell into a routine.
Laval proved himself quite useful. He not only tended to James’ wound, but he also 
went on a daily hunting expedition to procure food for the trio. Though he possessed no 
weapons, he never returned empty handed and always brought enough to satisfy even 
Farloft’s large appetite. Farloft told James the wizard no doubt killed the game with 
magic. The dragon carefully inspected whatever Laval brought back. Down deep in his 
dragon soul, he still did not trust the wizard, but he had to admit Laval did save James’ 
life and was gentle in his actions toward the boy.
Farloft never left James’ side, or more correctly, James never left Farloft’s side. The 
dragon kept him warmly cradled between his side and tail. He watched over him day and 
night, soothing him when he cried out in pain, telling him stories when he asked, 
humming or singing while he slept.
As for James, the pain was difficult to endure. Laval’s potions helped some, but 
Farloft’s company kept him fighting to stay alive. His recovery was slow, but recover he 
did.
By the end of the month, both James’ chest and Farloft’s wing mended and the time 
came for Farloft to take Laval home.
“You have been most helpful, Wizard,” Farloft complimented. “I owe you a great 
debt.”
Laval acknowledged the comment with a mere nod of his head. “I hope you will 
allow me to return for a visit and check on James in say....a fortnight?”
“You think that needful?” Farloft asked.
He looked over his shoulder at James sitting by the mouth of the cave, in the mid-
day sun. His back was against the rock face. The color had returned to his cheeks. In fact, 
unless the boy moved, which still gave him discomfort, you would not notice his injury.
Laval tried to keep as calm as possible. He had heard dragons could smell fear and 
deceit. He needed an excuse to return, yet not make the dragon suspicious. He also 
needed to get close enough to Farloft to administer the potion. He still intended to brew it 
from the piece of the dragon’s wing hidden in his pocket.
“James is not fully recovered. I think it would be wise for me to look in on him one 
last time. Of course, if you should need me prior to that, you most certainly could come 
and get me,” Laval offered.
“Thank you, Laval.” Farloft bent down to allow Laval to get aboard. “We shall look 
for you in a fortnight.”
“Goodbye, James,” Laval waved. “I will see you soon.” He climbed aboard Farloft 
and found a place to sit where the neck met the shoulders of the dragon.
“Thank you, Laval,” James called back from his place in the sun.
“I will be back shortly,” Farloft told the boy.
The dragon stepped to the edge of the mountain and then just dropped out of sight 
over the edge. James heard the wizard cry out and then saw Farloft and his passenger rise 
on an air current over the valley below. Farloft was such a tease, James thought and 
smiled to himself. He had scared the wizard on purpose.
-YET ANOTHER BREW -
Laval worked tirelessly in his chambers. His heart had not softened toward the 
dragon. If anything, he felt greater anger toward Farloft than ever before. Seeing the 
dragon with James, how much the boy loved him, only reminded Laval of the loss of his 
beloved daughter and how much that still hurt him.
A satisfied smile crossed the wizard’s face in spite of his exhaustion. Laval pictured 
how rewarding it would be to see Farloft’s reaction when James turned from him. The 
boy would have little interest in Farloft once the novelty of his being a dragon 
disappeared. The dragon would suffer the loss of a loved one just as Laval had with the 
loss of his daughter.
Laval toiled long into the night and on the twelfth day; he finished the potion that 
would turn Farloft the Dragon into Farloft the Human.
- THE FATE OF FARLOFT -
Laval reined in his horse just out of sight of the entrance to Farloft’s cave. He 
checked the vial cushioned in his robe pocket one last time. He wanted to make sure it 
had not broken. The thin vial lay intact cradled safely in cotton. The glass blower who 
normally made the containers for his potions wondered why the wizard wanted a vial so 
thin and slender. Laval explained it was needed for the application of medicine.
The wizard wanted the vial especially thin to ensure it would easily burst when it 
struck Farloft. He did not want to take the chance of it bouncing off of Farloft’s tough, 
scaly hide. The dragon need not ingest the potion. It would activate on contact.
He smiled in triumph. This was the day he would get his revenge.
“Laval’s coming,” James shouted with innocent enthusiasm.
Farloft did not tell the boy of his past history and general distrust of the wizard. 
Instead, he allowed James to think of Laval in a more kindly fashion based on his 
instrumental part in saving his life.
Farloft noted the wizard as he crested the edge of the plateau before the cave. The 
dragon had not needed James to inform him of Laval’s approach. He heard the wizard 
whistling as he rode. Something Farloft thought very uncharacteristic of Laval.
Farloft’s skin crawled. His dragon senses coming to attention. Something seemed 
very wrong here.
James ran forward to greet Laval. Farloft placed a large protective foot in the boy’s 
path. “No, James. I do not wish to see you trampled. Wait until he dismounts.”
Laval’s horse pranced and tossed its head in the presence of the dragon. Laval 
brought him under control, dismounted and tied him securely to a nearby tree.
“You are early,” Farloft challenged.
“It was such a nice day I thought I would come while the weather was clear.” Laval 
looked to the West. “I feel it may snow again soon.”
Another thing that did not ring true, Farloft thought. The wizard knew as well as the 
dragon the signs of coming snow. There were none today. Farloft became more and more 
suspicious, but of what he was not sure, other than the intentions of the wizard never 
seemed what they appeared to be.
James ran forward. “Come on, Laval. You can have lunch with us. Farloft brought 
down a grand, big stag this morning.” James gave the wizard’s sleeve a short tug. “Come 
on, I’m hungry.”
“You are always hungry,” Farloft said with a lop-sided toothy grin at the boy as he 
ran toward him.
Farloft, with James at his side, headed toward the cave entrance. Laval trailed close 
behind, his hand feeling for the vial in his pocket. He pulled the potion out. Farloft’s back 
was to him. There was no possible way the dragon could turn in time to save himself.
“You are looking well, James.” Laval commented in an effort to keep Farloft 
unsuspecting.
“Thanks to Farloft,” James said, and patted the dragon’s side affectionately. “And 
you, of course,” he added, as he turned back toward Laval.
The noonday sun reflecting off the pointed glass vial in Laval’s hand, made it 
appear to be a dagger.
“Watch out, Farloft,” James shouted, and with the speed of youth, rushed toward the 
wizard.
Laval watched Farloft’s head begin to swing around, in the background, as James 
dashed toward him. It was throw now or lose his chance for revenge. He lobbed the vial 
in an effort to clear James’ head and hit Farloft’s back before the dragon could turn.
James sprang up off the ground and batted at the object thrown by Laval. It 
shattered above him raining a glutinous, green ooze down upon his head and shoulders.
“Yuck!” James cried, as he tried to wipe the potion from his hair and face.
“What have you done?” Farloft demanded of Laval. The dragon turned back around 
and was studying the wizard suspiciously.
“Nothing,” Laval lied and took a step backward toward his horse.
“Stay where you are,” Farloft ordered. He moved closer to James and sniffed at the 
boy’s hair.
“Something made from my wing,” Farloft declared in a deep rumble. “What are you 
up to Laval?”
The wizard did not get the opportunity to answer. All of a sudden James fell to his 
hands and knees between Laval and Farloft.
“I don’t feel very good, Farloft,” James said.
Farloft was surprised to see the boy’s skin take on a greenish glow. “What kind of 
wizard’s work is this?” the dragon grumbled in growing anger.
Laval took another step toward his mount.
“One more step, Laval, and I will sear you to well done,” Farloft warned.
“Oh!” James shouted in surprise as his body began to elongate and his skin began to 
appear scaly. He jerked convulsively as a tail, not unlike Farloft’s burst the seam of his 
pants.
“Farloft!” James screamed in fright; when he looked down to find his hands turning 
to feet with huge claws the size of spades sprouting from each toe.
“Laval!” Farloft snapped. He started to advance on the wizard.
“Farloft!” James cried, arching his back in pain as wings began to thrust up through 
the back of his tunic. “I’m changing into a dragon.”
Farloft could not believe his eyes when he turned from Laval to look at James. The 
boy no longer resembled a human at all. Instead, he looked very much like a small 
version of Farloft. His shredded clothes lay in a pile beneath his iridescent, green belly.
James was shaking uncontrollably on four new legs, his wings sadly drooping their 
tips to the ground.
“Thirsty,” James said in a hoarse voice, and took several faltering steps toward the 
pool outside the cave entrance. When he reached it he collapsed on his belly, lapping 
water in great gulps as steam rose from the contact of his mouth with the pool.
“Why?” Farloft asked Laval. “Why have you done this to the boy?”
“It wasn’t meant for James,” Laval answered. “It was meant for you.”
“Why make a potion to turn a dragon into a dragon?” Farloft asked, wrinkling his 
brow in confusion.
“It was supposed to have the reverse affect on you,” Laval admitted. “You were 
supposed to change from dragon to human.”
“Indeed?” Farloft questioned. “Why would you wish to turn me into a human?”
“I could think of no worse punishment for a dragon than to be turned into a man.”
“Punishment for what, Laval? What have I ever done to you?” Farloft asked in all 
innocence.
“You caused the death of my Megan.” Laval spat in a release of pent up anger.
“Megan is dead? I did not know,” Farloft said in shock. All during Laval’s stay with 
them at the cave he had been so preoccupied with James he had not thought to ask about 
Megan.
“You didn’t ask,” Laval spit out.”By your reluctance to give me the wing portion I 
needed to make the cure for the plague she died. If I had obtained it the first time I asked, 
I could have saved her.”
“I am so sorry,” Farloft apologized. “You know I would have never harmed her.” 
He sighed. “If I had known, I never would have...”
“Saying you are sorry will not heal this wound. I will never forgive you. I will make 
it my goal in life to seek retribution for your evil ways.”
James was oblivious to the wizard and the dragon’s conversation. His body felt on 
fire. When he regained his strength, he waded into the pool and lay down, wallowing in 
the cool waters, effectively washing off all the wizard’s potion. Having relieved his thirst, 
and his burning skin, he now stood on four sturdier legs looking at his reflection in the 
pool.
“Farloft, I look just like you,” he observed out loud.
“I know, James. I will have the wizard turn you back immediately,” Farloft assured 
him, while never letting his eyes leave the wizard.
“I can’t,” Laval insisted.
Farloft’s skin began to take on a crimson glow. Spikes bristled in anger from his 
nose, brow and neck ridge.
“None of that, Wizard,” he warned. “He should not suffer for my mistake. You will 
turn him back at once, and be hasty about it, or I will light a fire under you.
“No, Farloft,” James exclaimed coming to join the two combatants. He rubbed his 
new little bony dragon head on Farloft’s shoulder. “You must not hurt, Laval. Don’t you 
see, he’s done us a great favor? Now you will no longer be alone and I will have a family 
again.” James looked up at Farloft lovingly. “You can teach me everything there is to 
know about being a dragon.”
Farloft’s brow knit in concentration. He remained silent for a moment until he 
finally said, “and for Laval’s treachery, he is stuck with two dragons instead of one,” he 
said, slightly amused. “It looks like the joke is on you, Wizard.”
Laval sat down abruptly in defeat on the nearest boulder. With a shake of his head 
he brought up his hands to sooth his brow where the worst of headaches was just 
beginning to form. Nothing had happened as it should.
“Laval has done us a good turn, even though he may not have meant to.” James 
said. “I think we should give him a gift. A kind of reward, and I know just the thing. I’ll 
go get it. You won’t go, will you Laval?”
Laval shook his head in dismay without looking up.
James went into the cave reappearing almost instantly. He walked to Laval and to 
Farloft’s amazement, spit out the Zonguldak Ruby at the wizard’s feet.
“Sorry about the slobber. I couldn’t figure out how to carry it. All of this is new,” 
James said, as he lifted first one large foot and then another.
Laval picked the stone up and began to absentmindedly polish it with the end of his 
robe.
“Can you hear it sing?” James asked.
“Yes,” Laval answered, with a touch of awe in his voice.
“Good,” James said with satisfaction and winked at Farloft.
Farloft had to admit, it was a fitting gift for the wizard. Laval would no doubt get 
what he deserved in the end.
The wizard appeared to be mesmerized by the jewel. He rose, as if in a trance, 
walked to his horse, mounted and rode away without another word.
Farloft watched his departure with satisfaction. “Giving Laval the Zonguldak Ruby 
was a brilliant idea, James,” Farloft complimented. “You are already beginning to think 
like a dragon.”
James smiled at the compliment and flexed his iridescent, green wings in the 
afternoon sun. “Teach me how to fly,” James said with enthusiasm, as he pumped his 
wings up and down vigorously.
Before Farloft could reply, James stopped, folded his wings and turned toward the 
dragon. “No....teach me how to breathe fire...” he exclaimed with equal enthusiasm.
Farloft smiled tolerantly at the new young dragon.
“And how to hunt...and tell the weather...and...” James began to bound around 
Farloft on all four of his new dragon feet, his wings flapping randomly, threatening to 
take him involuntarily aloft at any moment.
All of a sudden a deep rumble emitted from James. He immediately froze, looking 
down at himself, unable to believe such a sound came from him. “What was that?” he 
asked Farloft.
“That was your stomach growling,” Farloft informed him. He placed his wing over 
James in a paternal gesture of affection. “There will be time enough to teach you all you 
ask. Quite a lot of time, in fact, now that you have the life span of a dragon. Right now I 
think we had better feed you.”
The two started toward the cave for James’ first meal as a full-fledged dragon.
- THE END -
AUTHOR’S NOTE
Thank you for reading.
I hope you enjoyed James and Farloft’s adventure.
Please consider leaving a review on your favorite purchasing site to help other readers 
find the story. <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Chapter One
Mid July, 1984
Sarah sighed deeply, looking at the long stretch of road ahead of her. Her right hand loosely held the 
steering wheel and her left arm leaned against the window as she and her best friend sped down the 
freeway to start their “summer-to-remember.”
She was contemplating what she wanted to do with her life. She was only seventeen, just graduated, and 
right now, right this moment, all she knew was that she was up for an adventure. She felt excited over the 
current feeling of freedom and she wanted to relish in the moment. Her parents were incredibly strict and 
she didn’t know when this type of “gift” would come upon her again.
“Oh. My. God! We’re gonna totally have so much fun!” Samantha smacked her gum loudly.
She looked at her friend. The girl was moving her head in circles to catch different parts of her face in the 
small sun-visor mirror. She applied her bright red lipstick and puckered her lips into a tissue. Sarah smiled 
at her friend’s preening habits and wondered how Samantha ever got herself out of the house on time. Her 
hair alone took at least one can of hairspray before Sam was satisfied that the stiff waterfalls she called 
bangs would actually hold their shape. 
Sarah reached for the cassette sticking out of the player and pushed it in. She heard it click and the wheels 
started winding to play a song. 
Like a virgin. Touched for the very first time…
Samantha squealed in delight, turning the volume up on the car stereo. “I love this song! I love Madonna! 
She’s totally fearless.” She looked into the mirror again and fluffed her hair, “If I dyed my hair blonde, I 
could totally look like her.”
Sarah looked over at Samantha posing in front of the miniature mirror. “You’re way prettier,” she snorted, 
stifling a chuckle, “but you sound like a cat in heat when you sing.”
Samantha shrugged, ignoring her last comment. She was back to fixing her make-up. After a moment, she 
turned slowly, looked at Sarah, the twinkle in her eyes shining with mischief. She raised an eyebrow and a 
smirk curled the corner of her glossy red lips. “Van didn’t seem to mind…”
Sarah’s eyes darted between her friend and the road. Her expression turned suspicious. “Ok, spill.”
Samantha blushed, her face matching the redness of her lips. She giggled nervously.
She could hear Samantha gulp. “What is it?” 
“Whew!” Samantha blew out, fanning herself with her hand. “I’m hot! Is the A/C on?”
She eyed her friend suspiciously. “Samantha Montclair,” her tone was accusatory. She raised an eyebrow 
herself, realization dawning on her. “You didn’t!?”
Samantha buried her face in her hands, “Yes! I did!” she groaned, her voice muffled.
Sarah laughed and hooted. 
Samantha groaned and slumped down in her seat. She looked miserable.
Sarah waggled her eyebrows. “So, how was it? You have to tell me!” She poked her friend’s side.
“I’m still sore!” Samantha was trying to stifle a laugh. “Oh my god, it hurt!” 
Sarah couldn’t stop smiling at her friend.
“… but I would totally do it again!”
This was going to be a fun day. They’d left early in the morning, telling Samantha’s parents they wanted 
to get an early start shopping and would be gone all day. Of course, they didn’t say, they would be 
shopping in Tijuana, but… Sam’s parents didn’t ask. 
They were almost to their destination. The Mexican border was only about a mile away and they had to 
start looking for a parking lot. Sarah was still trying to interrogate Sam when she spotted a lot not too far 
from the border. She began to slow down and turned into the gated space.
She was still prodding for info as they readied to cross the border. She’d never been with a boy and was 
dying to know what sex was like; that her best friend was withholding information from her was a form of 
unnecessary torment.
“Saaaam. Tell me.”
“There’s nothing to tell.” Samantha’s face scrunched up. “It wasn’t all that good.”
“You said you’d do it again!”
“Well, yeah, but I didn’t say it was good.” 
“What?” she asked.
“We were done in like a minute! Seriously. I don’t even think he kissed me,” Samantha huffed.
“Oh.” Sarah was disappointed at the news. She thought it would be more meaningful, more special, and 
more breathtaking than that. “Well that sucks.”
“That’s what Van should have been doing to me!” Sam chuckled. “Instead of just poking me. I swear, I 
thought he was having a seizure!” Sam rubbed the back of her head. “I had the worst headboard headache. 
I think I’ve got a goose egg back there.” She groaned. “Ech! Never again with that guy.”
Sarah was laughing now, “Oh my god.” She wiped at her eyes, “Come on Madonna, let’s go.” 
They decided to travel light, anticipating that they would be doing a lot of walking. They each brought a 
backpack and made sure they only brought the essentials -- cameras, IDs, and money. They twined their 
arms together and began their entry into Mexico on foot, both girls giddy with excitement. From the 
parking lot to the border was only a block, and once across they hailed a taxi to take them to Tijuana’s 
famous market place. 
“Avenida Revolución, por favor.” Sarah said to the cab driver. Her Spanish sounded a lot better than she 
thought it would; four years of Spanish class with Sam was finally paying off. 
“Impressive, Ms. Amalfi,” her friend snickered.
The cab driver simply nodded from his seat and waited for the girls to get into the back of the cab. 
He watched them settle in from his rear view mirror, his dark eyes looking impatiently at the girls. “Cierra 
la puerta,” he demanded.
Sam scowled, not appreciating being bossed around. She slammed the door, rocking the old thinned door 
panels underneath the window. The car frame shook, knocking the little green fragrant tree, off a jimmy-
rigged hook, taped against the door. 
The cab lurched forward, tires screeching. The driver leered menacingly at them as he merged into tightly 
packed traffic. 
Sarah’s eyes widened, her nails digging into the seat. She caught the driver’s stare within the rear view 
mirror and gasped out, “Perdón, señor,” hoping her apology would calm the driver.
The dark eyes squinted at her through the rear view mirror, and gave no heed to slowing down. He looked 
away from her and swerved sharply to the left. Sam fell to the floor, and Sarah slid hard to the right, 
hitting the other door panel with a thud. Sarah grabbed for Sam’s arm to help her back into the seat. 
“Apologize,” Sarah gritted out. 
Sam huffed at her and rolled her eyes before catching the driver’s attention, “Disculpame, Señor,” 
Samantha droned out.
The cab started to slow, the driver’s temper seeming to cool with Sam’s apology, the ride becoming less 
jerky from frequent and abrupt stops. Sarah released her nails from the vinyl seat and finally let out her 
tightly held breath.
“Gracias, Señor.” Sarah offered. She was dizzy and her stomach felt queasy from the rough ride. She 
leaned her head back against the seat, closed her eyes, and hoped that the ride would soon be over. Of all 
the drivers in Tijuana, they had to get one with a quick temper.
She felt Samantha’s arm next to hers. She leaned away wanting more room while she caught her breath, 
but then changed her mind and decided to hit Sam on the shoulder. “You almost got us killed.”
“I didn’t do anything.” Sam said innocently, then started talking non-stop about all the shops she wanted 
to visit, and to remind her to get souvenirs for everyone, and to make sure that she didn’t drink any water, 
and to make sure she got a picture with a Tijuana Zonkey. 
Was this really happening? How could Sam be this cheerful after that ride? Sarah peered at her with one 
eye open. “Zonkey?” she asked, completely perplexed. “What is a zonkey?”
“They are way cool! You can only find them in T.J. It’s a local tradition,” Sam replied back with a smile.
“What are they?”
Sam chuckled and replied matter of factly, “Zonkeys are donkeys painted to look like zebras.”
“What?!”
“Hahaha! Yeah, they’re great. They’re supposed to be everywhere; pulling around these colorful carts and 
stuff. Hopefully, it won’t take us long to find one,” she replied as she looked out her window.
The taxi started to slow and pulled over next to a crowded sidewalk. “Avenida Revolución,” the driver 
spit out. 
Sam slid out of the car quickly and onto the sidewalk while Sarah paid for their fare. “Gracias, Señor,” 
she said politely before exiting the backseat.
The driver turned quickly and grabbed Sarah’s arm, his dark eyes penetrating her. “Ten cuidado, Señorita. 
Hay cosas malas que andan por estas calles.” Be careful. There are bad things walking these streets. His 
stare softened as he released her arm.
Sarah stared back at the man. Her brows furrowed in confusion. She hesitated leaving the cab, wanting to 
ask the driver some questions.
“Sarah, hurry up already!” Sam whined impatiently.
The driver nodded at Sarah and smiled tightly. “Ten cuidado.” Be careful. He turned around to face away 
from Sarah.
She slipped out and stood next to Sam, watching the taxi pull out into traffic.
“That was weird,” she said under her breath.
“Hmm, what?” Sam asked.
She shook her head, her eyes still trailing the taxi. “Nothing. Let’s go.”
The morning at the Avenida went by quickly and both Sarah and Sam were famished from hours of 
shopping. Shopping had been uneventful, much to her relief. She’d felt paranoid the entire time, watching 
over their shoulders and looking for anything suspicious.
She felt tired and wanted a break. The afternoon sun was beating down; the glaring rays making it feel 
hotter than it was. Sarah shielded her eyes with her hand as she looked around. The crowd was thinning 
out, everyone seeming to migrate towards areas of shade. That meant the restaurants with air-conditioning 
would be packed with people.
She looked to her friend. Sam had been quiet for a while; a sure sign that she was tired and hungry. They 
both needed a break.
“Let’s go over there.” Sarah pointed toward a block with a row of faded pastel buildings.
Sam shrugged her agreement and followed behind her.
They crossed the steaming streets out of the Avenida and toward a two story faded blue building. The 
building wavered from Sarah’s sight. She rubbed her eyes. “This heat is getting bad. Come on, let’s hurry 
and get inside.” She pulled at her friend’s arm. “Come on, you can make it,” she coaxed.
“Uugh! It is sooo hot!”
They ran to the front of the building. An aged wooden sign hung haphazardly above the door. It looked 
ready to fall, but somehow held on with the remaining strength of the rusted nails poking out of the 
corners. They crossed the threshold, Sarah looking up, hoping that the “Restaurante” sign wouldn’t fall on 
their heads. 
She breathed a sigh of relief as cool air hit her body. They walked tentatively inside the small restaurant 
and sat down at the only available table. 
It felt like paradise inside the restaurant and she immediately relaxed. She looked around and appreciated 
the age of the space. It was old and felt full of history. At the far end of the restaurant was a beautiful 
wooden counter that looked hand hewn with intricate carvings on the bar’s curved lip and on its wide 
front panels. Atop the counter was an old fashioned cash register, the kind with an ornate brass metal 
casing and big round ebony buttons. 
Sarah could easily imagine old time vaqueros coming in to the building and leaning on that counter to 
wait for a drink after a hard day of herding cattle. She looked closer at the carvings gracing the bar and 
wondered what era it was from. It looked really old. 
She started rummaging inside her backpack looking for a pamphlet she’d picked up at the Cultural Center. 
They’d wanted to take a break from shopping this morning, and the museum seemed like a good place to 
go. “Sam, do you have that flyer from the museum?”
“No, I didn’t keep it. Why?”
“That counter.” She jutted her chin toward the bar. “It’s beautiful. I just thought the carvings looked 
similar to the Olmec exhibit we looked at. Remember the one with the big heads?”
Sam shrugged, uninterested. “I’m starving,” she groaned. 
She set down her backpack and started looking at the pinkish walls of the restaurant. She was starving, 
too. Her stomach felt like it was eating itself from lack of food. They should have eaten before they left, 
but they’d been too excited and wanted to get out before Sam’s parents started asking questions. 
Sam had been tapping her fingers on the table impatiently when a voluptuous woman with honey colored 
skin and bright red lips came out from a darkened room behind the counter. The woman had her black 
hair pulled into a tight bun with a bright red, silk flower tucked behind her ear. The woman cooled herself 
with an accordion fan as she approached them. She looked annoyed that she had been disturbed from 
whatever she might have been doing. 
The woman waddled to their table and closed her fan with a snap of her wrist. She stood next to the small 
table, her heavy presence looming over them. She eyed them both, pulled out a note pad and pencil from 
her apron pocket and waited for the girls to place their order.
“¿Qué se les ofrece?” the woman asked, irritated.
The girls looked at the woman in confusion. 
“Menu?” Sam asked.
The woman rolled her eyes before letting out a frustrated sigh. Her red lips puckered to the side. 
“Weelyam!” the woman bellowed in the air.
They looked at each other, two pairs of eyes growing wide in unison as they tried to stifle nervous 
giggles.
The woman scowled at them. “Weelyam!” she yelled out again. Her shrill voice making the hairs on 
Sarah’s arm stand up in attention.
The girls immediately quieted down when a handsome young man with chin length dark hair and piercing 
silvery-blue eyes came running to their table. He didn’t look that much older than them, but he carried an 
air of maturity about him. He pushed one side of his hair behind his ears before flashing a smile that 
should have been illegal. 
Sarah was captivated.
“Buenas tardes, Señoritas. How may I help you?”
He spoke perfect English -- no accent. Sarah wondered how he came to be there. It was clear that he 
worked at the restaurant. He had a dish rag thrown over his shoulder and a small apron tied around his 
waist. Was the woman his mother? Maybe he looked more like his father?
“Um, we don’t know what to order. We didn’t get menus,” Sam whispered loudly. She looked guardedly 
at the woman scowling at them from behind the counter. 
‘Weelyam’ chuckled and placed a hand over his tight abdomen. “Be careful, she’s got ears like a bat. She 
hears everything!” he whispered back to Sam.
Sam gulped and looked nervously at Sarah who’d been gazing at the dark haired boy before her. 
Sarah couldn’t keep her eyes off of him. There was something about his presence that drew her attention 
and made her notice every detail of his face, his smile, his hair, his voice, his eyes… 
He looked at her. 
She held her breath as he locked onto her eyes and held them. She felt her face warm with a blush, as 
images of him invaded her mind.
Eres hermosa, mi angel. My beautiful angel. Her whole body warmed and her heart pounded wildly. Did 
he say that out loud? No, Sam had been talking to him this entire time; but it felt so real. She thought she 
felt his breath next to her ear.
“Sarah!” Sam called out. “Yoohoo, Earth to Sarah!”
“Oh, umm…” Sarah stammered realizing that she had been staring at him this whole time.
He looked to her and smiled, showing off deep dimples that just multiplied his level of hotness. “I would 
recommend the tacos. They’re delicious,” he said politely.
“That sounds great! We’ll have two orders and two sodas,” Sam chimed in.
“Great choice. I’ll be right back.” Sam beamed at ‘Weelyam,’ watching him walk to the room behind the 
counter.
“You are totally into him!” Sam snickered.
“What? Nooo. No, I’m not,” she lied.
“He’s super fine! Tall, dark, and smoldering. Did you see the guns on those arms?!” Sam said loudly. 
“Ooh. You should invite him to help us find a zonkey. It’s the last thing on my list. And then, I can get 
lost for a while, and you can get all sweet with him.” Sam was chuckling. 
“Shhh. He’ll hear you.” She was trying to quiet her friend, but Sam was in a teasing mood now. Sarah 
cupped her face, feeling her cheeks burn under her fingers. She was trying to ignore Sam’s kissy noises 
and didn’t notice him come back to their table. She almost fell out of her chair to hear his voice.
“Are you ok?” he asked. “I have your sodas…” he was hesitating, “…would you like some water or ice?”
Across the table, Sam was shaking her head no, mouthing, “Don’t drink the water.”
Sarah could feel him staring at her. She could feel his eyes drilling into her, making her insides flutter. 
She finally turned to look at him and their gaze met. He looked truly concerned. 
Sarah felt absorbed by him, his eyes peeling away layers of her soul to see what was inside. She felt 
crazy. That wasn’t possible, but his eyes made her feel like he understood her, understood her dreams, her 
aspirations, and her quirks. 
“I’m ok. Just hot,” she said softly. She looked at Sam, who was mouthing “hot, hot, hot,” fanning herself, 
and sneaking mischievous looks at ‘Weelyam.’
“I’m glad you’re ok.” He nodded slightly. “The food will be ready soon.” He looked at her one more time, 
before turning to leave.
“Sam! What if he saw you?!”
“Whaat?! I was hot, too!” Sam chortled loudly. “When he comes back, I’m going to ask for his name and 
number!”
“No! Sam!” 
“Yes! You’re such a chicken. That guy is so into you!” Sam’s smile was making Sarah nervous.
‘Weelyam’ came back with two plates of steaming food. He set the plates down carefully in front of the 
girls and smiled. “Disfruten, enjoy.” The girls gawked at their plates and looked at ‘Weelyam.’ He 
seemed pleased at their surprise. 
Their mouths were salivating at the bright plate of food he’d brought them. The plate was laden with fresh 
crisp salad, two small soft tacos, and a small cup of savory rice, jeweled with green and red bell peppers.
He started to turn to leave, but Sam stopped him.
“Wait. Weelyam?” Sam was exaggerating the accent. “Is that really your name?” She took a bite of her 
taco, the juices from the chicken dripping down her fingers. “I’m Sam and that’s my best friend, Sarah,” 
pointing her taco at Sarah.
He smiled, placed a hand over his heart and bowed. “I’m sorry. I didn’t properly introduce myself. My 
name is William Koraki. Please, call me Will.”
“Koraki?” Sam’s eyebrows crinkled, “That doesn’t sound Spanish.”
“It’s Greek.” Will said.
“Ooh. A living Greek god,” Sam teased. “What are you doing here amongst the mortals? Is that your 
mom? You don’t look like her.”
Will simply smiled and started to leave, but Sam stopped him again. “I’ll stop. I swear.” She crossed her 
heart and fluttered her eyelashes at him. “Just one more question?” Sam asked in her sweetest, most 
sincere voice.
“Si, Señorita,” he replied patiently. The Spanish rolling off his tongue like honey. 
“Can my friend have your phone number?” Sam asked with a bright smile.
Sarah was not smiling. Her stomach tightened, exciting the already frenzied butterflies in her gut. She 
wanted to vanish into thin air. She was going to feed Sam to a zonkey. 
Will looked at her and then at Sam. “I can do better. If the two of you would allow me to accompany you 
after lunch, for a short time. I can make sure you’re both safe.” His eyes flicked to the window at the front 
of the restaurant. “There’s been a lot of strange activity around here lately and it’s really not safe for two 
young women to be by themselves.”
“We’d love your company, but it’s broad daylight. What could happen?” Sam asked.
Sarah’s heart was pounding. She’d felt safe, relaxed since they’d been at the restaurant, and… she gulped, 
remembering the taxi driver’s warning about bad things walking the streets. “Hay cosas malas que andan 
por estas calles,” the man had said. 
“Enjoy your lunch. Take your time. When you’re ready, I’ll make sure you get safely back over the 
border.” Will gave them a gracious bow before leaving them with their meal. 
“Hmmm. You think he’s serious?” Sam asked. 
Sarah sagged in her chair, beginning to feel uneasy. The air itself felt like it was changing, getting heavy. 
She rubbed her arms and looked to Sam in all seriousness. “Yeah, I think he is.”
The girls ate lunch slowly, neither one in a hurry to leave the shelter of the restaurant. After about an hour 
of them sitting and staring at their empty plates, the voluptuous woman came back out and slammed their 
ticket down with a heavy hand. “Chu pay and go!” She turned and squeezed her ample hips in between 
the aisle of tables to head to the cash register.
The girls hesitantly got up when Will came out from the back room, slinging a duffle bag over a shoulder. 
He smiled brightly at the girls and motioned for them to stay where they were. Will turned to the woman 
at the register and flashed a devilish smile. 
She gave him a knowing look. He took her hand and placed a chaste kiss on top of her fat fingers. She 
pulled her hand back and smacked him playfully on the shoulder, saying “Sácate! Pero ten cuidado!” 
She wanted them to be careful.
Will walked toward the girls, but turned around one more time to spy on his friend at the register. She had 
her arms crossed over her full bosoms and her left eyebrow raised all the way to the middle of her 
forehead. She watched the trio closely as they exited the restaurant. 
“Don’t worry Rosa! We’ll be fine,” Will yelled out.
Once outside, the trio started to walk toward the Avenida. Sam broke the silence during their walk and 
asked Will, “So what’s been going on around here that you have to chaperone us?”
Will didn’t answer, but looked towards Sarah who was avoiding making eye contact with him.
Sam was walking slow and falling behind Sarah and Will. “Like, has there been a lot of crime? Drugs, 
kidnapping, robberies, what?” she asked.
Will stopped walking and waited for Sam to catch up to him. 
Sarah hadn’t noticed him stopping and kept walking ahead.
“Sarah!” he screamed out. She turned quickly toward Will. A strong wave of energy rushed at her as he 
ran in her direction. Her heart raced too fast, making breathing difficult.
Danger was near, she could feel it. 
Get down! Will’s voice was a command in her mind -- clear and spoken with so much force that she had 
to obey.
Sarah looked towards the direction of the Avenida. A man was heading for them at a fast clip. He looked 
like a bull aimed straight for a waving red cape. 
“Oh. My. God!” Sarah uttered. Fear spiked her nerves.
The man’s eyes glowed white in the distance. Yes, bow down to me, Beautiful! The bullish man jeered in 
her mind. 
She suddenly felt Will next to her, blocking her on one side. Her scalp tingled with Will’s voice in her 
mind. He was calm, but full of authority. Run Sarah. Take Sam back to the restaurant. 
Sarah crawled away from behind Will’s legs. She struggled to get up and run, as loose gravel slid from 
beneath her sandals. She finally found her momentum, after all the dust she’d kicked up and hurried to 
reach Sam. 
She pulled Sam quickly back to the restaurant. It was empty of patrons as Rosa stood by the door, waving 
for them to hurry up and get in. She slammed the door shut and locked it quickly with a large skeleton 
key. 
Without delay, Rosa walked towards the center of the small dining room and stretched her arms to either 
side of her full figure, her palms facing the ceiling. She dipped her chin toward her chest and began to 
chant words, foreign to both Sarah and Samantha’s ears. The chanting was rhythmic and melodic, 
reminding Sarah of something tribal. 
The chant started soft, only audible as a whisper, but grew louder, stronger, and more intense. The air 
inside the restaurant sizzled with electricity, the charge sparking the air like stars in the daylight. Rosa 
brought her arms in quickly, clapping her hands with power. 
Warm air rushed at Sarah and Sam, their hairs blowing back from the gust created by Rosa’s clap.
Sam was transfixed, looking at Rosa with wonder and excitement. Sarah put her hand lightly on her 
friend’s shoulder, keeping her in place while Rosa rushed to the store front window and peeked out. 
Both girls quickly followed suit and squeezed next to Rosa for what available space was left. “Dios mio!” 
Rosa exclaimed as she made the sign of the cross.
Across the street, Will and a bull-like man were facing off. The man was as tall as Will, but the aggressor 
was thick and bursting with muscles. The man looked crazy and completely drowned in rage. 
Sarah wondered if he was on drugs. She’d heard a lot of news reports lately about people becoming 
uncontrollable and violent when they took PCP, Angel Dust. Is this what she was seeing? 
Her head felt like it was going to split open. She looked to her side, feeling Rosa’s intense gaze bore into 
her. Your mind is opening. Sarah squeezed her eyes shut, as the pain spread over her skull. Don’t fight it, 
Mija. Sarah blew out and opened her eyes slowly. The intimidating woman was still looking at her and 
nodded slightly. Sarah felt relief as the pain started to diminish and Rosa finally looked away.
She started to open her mouth, wanting to ask Rosa about her headache, when a loud growl brought her 
attention back to the conflict outside.
The man had roared, his jowls shaking violently, as he rushed at Will. Will easily avoided the assault and 
got behind him. He jumped on the man’s back and wrapped his muscled arms around the head and throat. 
The man’s large nostrils flared while he fought to resist Will’s hold. He arched back and reached for Will 
with thick, large hands. He gripped him by the shoulders and flung him over his head.
Will rolled on the dry dirt and skidded on his back, his face grimaced with pain. The man watched, and 
waited for Will to charge at him.
Will rose to a crouched position and ran -- aiming low for the abdomen. The attacker bent forward, Will’s 
momentum too great to stop. The man hit a nearby pole, the brittle wood shattering from impact. Will 
dodged the falling pole and ran to grab for the duffel bag that he’d tossed aside earlier. 
Sarah remembered Will slinging the black canvas bag over his shoulder when they left the restaurant 
earlier. In the chaos of the last few minutes, she’d forgotten about the bag until Will reached for it. He 
pulled a rope out; it was bright white, thick, with the ends anchored to sharp, silvery-white shards of 
metal.
Will spun one of the tipped ends next to his side and a sharp whistling pierced the air. He smiled, his 
soiled face mocking the angry man who growled menacingly. 
The rope spun faster, the whistling sound whinnying to too high frequencies until it was silent. The dirt 
clouds rose around him as the man charged heavily toward his direction. 
Will snapped the rope and it wrapped around the thick man’s torso. The rope tightened; its coiled strands 
cutting deep into the man’s flesh and tainting the white rope with red. The man bellowed in anger as he 
fell stiffly onto the hard, dry, dirt of the empty lot. 
Will pulled on the other end of the rope. He had control of the man now and he yanked, constricting the 
cords even tighter around the man.  
The wrapped man shrieked and convulsed as his eyes bulged out of their sockets; and the dust thickened, 
and swirled around the adversaries.
Her view had been completely blocked from sight and she could no longer hear anything outside. Sarah 
couldn’t breathe as she looked on. What was happening? Where was Will? Was he safe? 
When the sandstorm finally died down, everything was eerily calm and the heaviness in the air had 
disappeared, along with Will and the captured man.
Sarah’s face was paling. “Oh my god! Will! Where is he?” She could feel the blood draining from her 
face.
“They’re both gone!” Sam’s voice was shaking. “What? How?” 
Rosa backed away from the window to sit at one of the empty chairs near her. She was fanning herself 
with her left hand as she continued to make the sign of the cross with her right. When she stopped 
fanning, she balled her hand into a fist and shook it towards the window. “Vete al infierno, demonio!”
“Ow!” Sarah yelped. Sam was gripping her arm. Her nails piercing flesh. Sam was petrified, looking at 
the swaying curtain covering the back room behind the counter. Sarah tried to swallow down her fear, but 
her heart felt like it had jumped into her throat to run for escape. She wrapped Sam in her arms as she 
tried to slow her breath. 
Someone else was inside the restaurant and they had nowhere to run.
The curtain flew up from a gust of air and Will walked out covered in sweat and dirt. The rope he used 
was now neatly bundled and casually slung over a shoulder, much like the towel he’d used earlier. Sarah 
looked away as a ray bounced off of the highly polished metal tips of the rope, its brightness almost 
blinding in its whiteness.
Will set down the rope and Sarah’s whole body eased with relief to see him safe and back with them. 
Why did she care so much? She didn’t even know him and he didn’t know them, but he protected them 
from that man.
Sam ran to Will and gave him an excited hug. “You were incredible! Are you ok? What happened to that 
man? Where did you go? How’d you get back in here?” Her voice was still shaky and Sarah caught her 
wiping away some tears.
“All these questions will get you in trouble, Señorita,” Will replied softly.
“You are totally aggravating. Why don’t you ever answer me? If you just told me what was going on, I 
wouldn’t have to ask so many questions,” Sam sniffed.
“It’s better if you don’t know.” 
“Will, thank you for saving Sam and me… out there.” Sarah’s heart was beating wildly. She could feel 
Will’s energy surround her, embrace her, even though she could see that he was standing across the room.
“No thanks needed. It’s my job.” Will smiled and dipped his head. “I’ll borrow Rosa’s motorcycle and 
take you both back to the border. We need to hurry. Please, meet me out back.”
Will disappeared behind the curtain again and soon after they could hear the rumbling of an engine 
revving to life. 
Sam started to walk toward the counter. “Our ride is ready.” 
Sarah nodded, kneeling in front of Rosa, taking one of her large hands and holding it between hers. She 
looked into Rosa’s eyes, and with all the sincerity she could pour into her Spanish, she said, “Muchas 
gracias por todo, Señora! Thank you for everything!” She wished she knew how to say something more 
meaningful, but her Spanish was basic at best.
She knew that whatever Rosa had done when they returned to the restaurant protected the restaurant from 
harm. She didn’t know how she knew, but she did. There was no doubt in her mind. Without Rosa’s help, 
they would have still been vulnerable to an attack. 
For the first time that afternoon, Rosa gave her a smile; a big toothy smile that showed off the gap 
between her front teeth. “Ten cuidado, Mija. Be careful!” Rosa placed her free hand on top of Sarah’s and 
gave her a gentle squeeze of acknowledgement.
“Sarah, we have to go,” Sam interrupted. “Thank you, Rosa.”
“Go, go, go now.” Rosa waved them on.
The girls headed for the curtain toward the back of the restaurant where Will was waiting. He revved the 
motorcycle’s engine, making black puffs of smoke choke out of the pipe that extended beyond the rear 
wheel. 
Sarah looked at the motorcycle and wondered what Will had in mind. It was a small motorcycle and 
although it fit him fine by himself… 
“How are we supposed to fit on that thing?!” Sam asked.
“Easy. Sarah in front of me, you behind,” Will stated matter-of-factly.
“You are totally kidding!” her friend exclaimed.
“No, get on. Hurry. We can’t waste time.”
The girls looked at each other. Skepticism was written all over their faces, but what choice did they have? 
Will extended his arm towards Sarah. She took his hand and let him lead her in front of him. She side 
straddled the small space in front of Will and he leaned forward to grab the motorcycle’s handlebars.
He scooted in further allowing Sam to have a little bit more room behind him. Sam hopped on and 
straddled the seat behind him. The little motorcycle sank down further, aggravating the small worn out 
shocks, making them squeal in protest. 
Will turned his head slightly towards Sam. “Hang on.” The engine revved and the motorcycle awkwardly 
ambled forward.
Sam grabbed Will around the waist. “Ech! Easy dude! You got precious cargo here,” she shouted above 
the noisy roar of the engine.
Will weaved in and out of traffic within the Avenida and did everything he could to keep from stopping. 
Sarah slid into Will’s open arms as they drove through traffic. She felt safe there, protected, enclosed 
within a shield of muscles. Her eyes turned up, studying the contour of his chiseled jaw, the high 
cheekbones, and the ebony hair. She could feel his heart beating next to her, telling her he would be there 
to watch over her.
They stopped a block away from the border and found a spot to park the motorcycle. He straightened and 
pulled back from the handlebars to open up and give Sarah room to hop down. She moved slowly, not 
wanting to lose the physical contact they had during the too short of a motorcycle ride. Sam got off 
without hesitation; easing the burdened shocks and making the cycle spring up. 
“You know what sucks?” Sam sounded completely annoyed as she pursed her lip into a pout. “I never got 
a picture of a zonkey!”
Sarah couldn’t help but laugh. The zonkey was a delightful thought after such a horrid afternoon. She was 
amazed at Sam’s resilience. Wasn’t it just a few minutes ago that she sat petrified next to Sarah? And 
now, she seemed unfazed.
“Zonkey?” Will asked Sarah.
“Don’t ask.” She smirked as she hooked her friend’s arm. The last thing she needed was for Sam to run in 
search of a zonkey. “Thank you, Will. I wish there was something we could give you or do for you -- for 
what you did. You were incredible!” She could feel her face warming.
“I’ll be in the States after the summer is over. Maybe we can all hang out.” Will smiled, his deep dimples 
making him more irresistible.
Sam quickly pulled out of Sarah’s light hold and ran to him.
“Sam!” Sarah gasped out.
Sam pulled a pen out of her backpack and scrawled Sarah’s telephone number on his palm. “Call her!” 
She winked, hurrying back to Sarah.
Will beamed. “You better go. I’ll watch from here. I can’t cross with you.”
The girls slowly walked toward the line of people waiting to cross the border. Sarah looked back, wanting 
to look at Will for as long as possible. He was leaning against the motorcycle, his gaze diligently scanning 
the area before locking in on her and giving her a slight bow of his head.
Back to top
Chapter Two
Three weeks later, early August 1984
Three weeks had felt like a lifetime of painful absence.
He sat on Sam’s front stoop, tapping his foot on painted steps that led to the bright red front door of the 
ornately detailed house. It reminded Will of a dollhouse; tall, steep, and with too much color. He preferred 
the simple houses of his home town -- bright white stucco that gleamed beneath the rays of the Grecian 
sun. He missed his home and his mother, but he needed to stay away.
His days with Rosa had been about study and practice. She kept a close, protective watch over him. “Too 
many dangers Cuervito,” she would say to him. Little Crow -- the nickname made sense later, though in 
the beginning he was perplexed by the choice. Rosa had become his guardian, his mentor, and a trusted 
friend. If it hadn’t been for Rosa’s instructions, he would have been lost... and alone… never 
understanding his purpose. 
He still couldn’t believe it himself, but after taking a spirit walk under Rosa’s guidance he knew what he 
was meant for. He was of the Carrion Angels and their totem was the raven. Rosa’s eyes had grown so big 
at the revelation, he was afraid they would fall out. “Los Oscuros, the Dark Ones.” She had let those 
words come out in whisper, her breathy tone full of mystery. Then she had slapped his shoulder and 
smiled wide. “Si. Cuervito.” 
It all made sense after that. His purpose. His destiny. He’d even seen a glimpse of his future, and what 
he’d seen was his true mate’s radiant energy embracing his very essence and uniting with him in this life. 
It had been three weeks since the American girls had come into Rosa’s restaurant. That had been a 
surprise. The restaurant was not visible to all. In fact, only those with unique sight could see and enter into 
Rosa’s domain.
Rosa had been disconcerted. She did not like strangers in her midst, but for him it had been a breath of 
fresh, revitalizing air. The moment he’d seen Sarah, the past was remembered. He saw familiar energy 
cascading around her and he knew she was the one from his vision. It was her. She was the most beautiful 
thing he’d ever laid eyes on, a dark haired angel with exotic eyes. When he saw her sitting in Rosa’s 
restaurant, to say that his breath was ripped from his lungs would have been an understatement.
She had a stranger’s face, but her spirit and her soul felt intimately close to his. She didn’t know who she 
truly was, but he did.
He’d found the missing piece of himself, but did she feel the same way? God, he prayed that she did. 
He’d wished their meeting could have been a normal one, but normal was no longer an operative word in 
his life.
He hadn’t been able to stop thinking about her. He had to see her again, even from a distance, but he knew 
he wouldn’t be able to stay away once she was near. She pulled his energy into her, drawing him in with 
an unseen force that bound him to her. She already owned him.
He blew out and rubbed his palms together. He’d never felt this nervous before. He could feel Samantha’s 
energy inside the house. She was excited, giddy almost. They’d talked earlier and Sam had suggested he 
wait at her house. He would’ve waited inside, but he couldn’t sit still and he could tell it was making 
Sam’s mother nervous.
Sam poked her head out of the door, jarring him out of his thoughts. “She’s on her way,” she giggled.
He smiled; he never would have thought that he and Samantha would get this close so quickly. They were 
exact opposites, but Sam had a way of wearing down the toughest barriers. She was insistent, opinionated, 
pesky, and had an incredible heart of gold.
Samantha had returned to Tijuana, alone, a few days after he’d seen them off to the border. She’d camped 
out at the restaurant day and night, until Rosa agreed to talk to her about that fateful day when they’d all 
met. His mentor could have easily kicked her out, but Samantha’s charms had gotten to her, too. 
He chuckled, remembering Rosa’s bright red mouth dropping to the floor when Sam finally revealed why 
she was really there. She wanted to learn magick, she wanted to produce real magick and not like the kind 
you see on stage. “I know what I saw.” Sam declared. She stared Rosa down, challenging her to deny the 
events of that day. She’d seen it, seen the power coming out of Rosa’s hands and spreading through the 
walls of the restaurant. And then there was Will and his fight with the crazy, creepy man that she knew 
was not “human”.
He hadn’t been sure how Rosa would respond. Rosa worked alone, and until he came along, she had 
never taken on any students. The enigmatic Rosa was incredibly powerful -- a sorceress and she possessed 
the understanding of life forces and its connection to true magick. She practiced an ancient art that her 
family had preserved but was extinct to everyone else. 
He’d been the first to be given the privilege and honor of becoming her student, but as Rosa had confided 
in him, she was the last of her line and didn’t want the art to die with her. She had to make sure it was 
passed on to someone worthy. He didn’t think that Rosa had foreseen she would be teaching more than 
one. 
The unyielding woman had finally met her Achilles heel in a bubbly package named Samantha Montclair. 
He remembered Rosa groaning, when she finally conceded to teach the young woman, but she had to test 
Samantha first -- to determine her strengths. 
Rosa explained that everyone had the capability to craft magick, but some were stronger than others and 
came into it more naturally and with more power.
He had no doubt Sam would be powerful one day. He’d seen her energy, too. Sam carried traces of 
ancient magick within her; traces of forgotten abilities that had lain dormant for generations. It was no 
surprise to him that she’d found them again. Sam was remembering, waking up to her lost lineage of 
magick.
She worked hard while she’d stayed with them and gained his respect quickly. Sam was a quick study in 
many things, but had to work really hard to conjure magick itself.
“She has a noisy mind. She needs to quiet herself in several ways and she will be incredible,” the 
sorceress had said with a chuckle. “You better watch it Cuervito, she will get you back for always trying 
to spark her hair on fire.”
He’d had fun teasing Sam and throwing energy sparks at her. He chuckled, thinking of Sam’s infuriated 
look when he’d aim a spark right at her hair. 
She would waggle her finger at him. “Unless you can put out fire with your mojo, I would suggest you 
not aim for my coif,” she’d warn with a laugh. “It’s flammable.”
He’d shrug and change his aim and go for her bare feet, making her hop around. He’d burst out laughing 
to see her dance around, trying to avoid his sparks. “This is for your training!”  
“You’re not funny.” She would stick out her tongue and throw little sparks at him that would fizzle out as 
soon as it hit the air. “Aaargh! You are so aggravating.”
Though he’d been a little disappointed that she’d come alone, Sam had talked about Sarah so much it had 
felt as if she was there. The more he heard about Sam’s best friend, the more he began to believe she 
really was the one.
When Sam left to return to San Francisco almost a week ago, the restaurant grew quiet and Rosa 
admittedly missed Sam’s presence. So did he. 
He missed their talks about Sarah.
Sam had called, just this morning, “I’ve been flaking on her since I got back. She just called. You need to 
get over here.” Sam had urged him to jump to San Francisco to see Sarah. “If I know my best friend, 
she’ll be coming over here to check on me and then chew me out!”
He begged Rosa to let him go to San Francisco. She never really kept him from doing anything, but doing 
something with her approval was much better than going against her will. He’d made the jump easily. All 
he had to do was think of Sarah, and he was pulled to the city.
Now, he was right where he needed to be. 
His hands were clammy and his guts were twisting with anxiety. He was getting impatient. He needed to 
move and decided to walk up the hill, toward Sarah’s house. He’d almost made it to the top of the hill 
when he saw her hair, glistening in the sun. His heart stopped and jumped to his throat, tightening his 
vocal cords, making him clear his throat to free his airway. 
She was breathtaking, as radiant as the energy surrounding her. He wanted to reach out to touch her face, 
to feel the softness of her cheek against his rough hands. He couldn’t think. It was hard to speak and all he 
wanted to do was bask in her energy. 
“Is it really you?” She smiled, her voice sounding as if butterflies were tickling her insides. Sarah grabbed 
his forearm and squeezed, checking to make sure he was real.
Will smiled, feeling his dimples deepen. “I caught you at a bad time?”
“I was on my way to Sam’s. Do you want to come with me?” Sam had been right about predicting Sarah’s 
reaction.
“Umm. Yes, I would love that, but I shouldn’t.”  He had promised Sam that he would keep Sarah away 
from her house. If she gets to my house, then I can’t lie to her! Sam had pleaded with him. She gives me 
that look and I just can’t do it! I’ll tell her about all my hocus-pocus activities… I swear, but I need to 
find the right time to do it. I don’t want to freak her out. He understood Sam’s predicament. It was never 
easy, to reveal true magick to anyone. “I’m not supposed to be here, but I had to see you.” 
There were too many questions in Sarah’s eyes. “You’re not supposed to be here? What do you mean?”
“I wanted to… I needed to see you again.”
“Did you jump the border? Are you going to be deported?!”
Will grinned at her panic, assuring her that was not the issue. “Can we go somewhere to talk? If you can’t, 
I understand.” It was a miracle he could respond to her at all. Was that his voice talking? It sounded too 
soft, apologetic, unsure. 
“If I go, can I ask you some questions about that day?” Sarah was looking for information, just as much as 
Sam had been.
Was her heart pounding so hard she could feel her rib cage vibrate? His was. “Yes, of course.” 
Sarah led him to a nearby café where they could sit and talk in peace. The large glass window of the shop 
was warmly lit with golden lights that sparkled against the glass. They walked in and he instantly felt the 
tickle of a barrier rubbing against his energy. The café had shields around it. He pushed out his own 
barriers, testing the shields around him.  The shields were strong.
Someone here was from magick.
He noticed the totems spread around the small coffee shop. They were made to look like kitschy 
decoration, but he knew better. The totems were sources of power, thrumming with energy. He 
instinctively went into a defensive mode.
Sarah looked at him, her eyes bright as her smile. “This is where I like to study. Something about the 
ambiance in this place really gets my creative juices flowing.”
Will followed her to an empty table and pulled out a chair next to the aisle for her. He took the seat across 
from her, with his back against a wall and where he could clearly see the entirety of the small café. He 
scanned the room, reading each of the patrons that sat around them.
“Do a lot of people come here?” he asked.
“Umm, mostly just regulars. I always see the same people.”
“Do you know the owner?”
“A little. She’s really nice. That’s her over there.” Sarah pointed to a petite woman with long flowing 
blond hair and deep brown eyes. She looked delicate and otherworldly. 
The café owner twisted her willowy frame towards their table. She was staring at Will, her eyes 
brightening. You are safe here. A soothing, melodic voice echoed in his mind as the beautiful woman 
bowed to them before turning away to speak with another patron. 
Sarah’s brows twisted, confusion shadowing her eyes as she looked at Will. “Did you hear that?” She was 
looking around, trying to find the source of the mysterious voice.
He didn’t answer. Now that the café owner had accepted him as a friend, he could focus on Sarah. He 
wanted to just watch her and sear her beauty into his memory to always have her near. 
She was nervous, but so was he. More than he’d ever been in his twenty years. 
She turned to him, “Do you know her, the owner?”
Will shook his head. “I’ve never met her before, but I can see why you like it here. It’s very cozy.” 
She cleared her throat, “Sooo, what are you doing in San Francisco?” 
“I wanted to see you again.” Will’s voice was a hushed whisper. How do you tell someone you’ve just 
met that you’ve been in love with them? How do you tell a stranger that you’ve been together before -- in 
past lives? 
Rosa had told him that each lifetime was unique. That even if they’d been mates before, didn’t mean they 
would be again in this life. He hadn’t wanted to hear it. What would he do if she was meant for another in 
this life? Could he live knowing the missing part of his soul was with another?
He reached for her hands and held them lightly, his thumbs stroking her fingers. “What did you want to 
ask me?” 
She straightened in her seat, “What happened in Tijuana?” She didn’t hesitate with her question. 
He looked at their entwined hands for a long time. “You witnessed something that should have been 
hidden from you, but… you were able to see.” 
“Hidden? Your fight was out in the open. Rosa… in the restaurant… ” Her mind seemed to be turning 
over a thousand questions.
“I don’t know that I’m the right person to provide you with an explanation.” He was still learning and he 
hoped he could find the right words, “There’s a world steeped with power and wonder, and you’re a part 
of it. I’m just beginning to understand my part in it.” He turned his head away for a moment and then 
locked his gaze back onto Sarah.
“What are you saying, Will?” she looked confused.
“You are a rare diamond, extremely unique… special.” It was time. “Close your eyes. Trust me.” He 
connected with her subconscious and opened up his mind to show her what he had seen -- the glimpse of 
their union. Would she know that radiant energy was her own? He prayed she would.
Her fingers tightened around his. Her essence opened with his touch. He felt her powers surge into him 
like a storm, gripping every fiber of his being, making his heart clench as their energies merged and they 
lived their lifetimes together in one breath.
She opened her eyes slowly as he felt the walls that she kept tightly gartered around her fall away. He 
knew that her heart had instantly recognized that the man sitting across from her was her other half. She 
was remembering that she’d always been his. He sensed the swelling of her heart while all her feelings for 
him rose from within her soul, waking up forgotten memories of past lives spent with the man before her. 
He brought her hands to his lips and kissed the tops of her hands slowly. “My beautiful angel,” he 
whispered into his kiss.
I love you. It was a whisper sent by her heart. There was no reason or logic to this moment; that she would 
love a stranger with her entire being, or that he would love her the same… but it was true, and that was all 
that mattered. I’m yours and I will love you eternally, she whispered in his mind. Her voice was a 
soothing balm on his soul, anointing every part of his being, reminding him that he was now whole and he 
was loved. 
We are one Sarah. I knew you the moment I saw you. Their minds and their hearts were one, once again. 
Their union was inevitable, as sure as the stars burned in the sky. He felt like crying. He was overcome 
with joy. She’d accepted him and they would be together. 
He held her gaze and kissed her hand again, her perfumed lotion filling his senses, like her energy had 
filled his soul.
Her energy was closing, slowly shrinking back, and separating to bring her completely back into her own. 
He felt the weight of another vision bearing down on him. He dipped his head and closed his eyes, 
gripped by the images rushing into his mind. He clasped her hand tightly while his heart thundered, 
making him sweat. 
This vision was his to bear and he kept it from her, even as she opened her essence up to him, comforting 
him, and letting him feel her eternal love for him. 
“Will, is everything okay?” her voice was trembling.
He nodded quickly, as a crystalline voice began to fade into the recesses of his mind. Protect them, 
protect them at all cost. 
He’d been given another glimpse of his future. A child would be born in this lifetime, a special one; the 
only one that he and Sarah would ever have. This child would be born under a raging storm, a great power 
that will bear the might of all four elements… He tried to hold on to the vision, to see more of what may 
come, but it ended too quickly.
He wasn’t given enough information to know what might lay ahead for him and his future family. Protect 
them, protect them at all cost. His heart twinged at the resonant voice in his mind and he pledged his soul 
to uphold the command. 
He looked up, finally released from the intensity of the vision. Sarah had moved and was sitting next to 
him. She looked him over, concern dimming her bright energy. “I’m okay.” He reassured her.
She let her breath go and pulled him into an embrace as tears streamed down her cheeks. “You scared me. 
I thought I was going to lose you already.”
He leaned his forehead on hers and closed his eyes, letting her energy soothe him. He caught her faltering 
breath in a tender kiss.
“I love you,” she sighed against his lips.
The prelude to their life had begun.
###
Back to top
Author’s Note
Thank you, so much for taking the time to download this short story. I know your time is precious and I 
am truly grateful that you decided to spend a little bit of that time with me.
This story is building as we speak. Watch out for Gathering Storm: Order of the Anakim; where the story 
picks up with the fated child of Sarah and Will.
If you'd like to receive a FREE copy of Gathering Storm: Order of the Anakim, contact me at my blog:
http://cecilymagnon.blogspot.com/p/contact-me_23.html
You can also find me here:
Facebook
and
Twitter
And most importantly, if you enjoyed this book, please leave an honest review. Your opinion is so very 
important.  Thank you in advance for your review. 
Back to top
About the Author
Cecily Magnon is from the fertile valleys of northern California, where she lives with her husband and 
kids, and gets inspired by the diversity, beauty, and bounty of the people and of the land around her.
A self-proclaimed nerd girl, Cecily has had a fascination with all topics outside of the norm since she was 
a little girl. Things of fantasy, magick, sci-fi, the supernatural, and day dreams are the juice that nourishes 
her imagination and infuse into her writing.
According to Cecily, there is no such thing as “ordinary” when you believe and you see that the everyday 
is filled with magick.  
Back to top
Books from Cecily Magnon
I am not Frazzle
(Cecily is a contributing author to this collection of short stories. All proceeds go to the Devizes 
Children’s Centre.)
Prelude to a Storm
(Prequel to Gathering Storm)
Gathering Storm: Order of the Anakim
Dark Skies: Order of the Anakim
Back to top <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Raising Dead
Published on Smashwords by Aaron Dennis on May of 2013
Visit StoriesbyDennis.com for more stories
New edition November of 2016
All rights reserved. No part of this book may be reproduced, scanned or distributed in any 
form, including digital and electronic or mechanical, including photocopying, recording, 
or by any information storage and retrieval system, without the prior written consent of 
the Publisher, except for brief quotes for use in reviews.
This book is a work of fiction. Characters, names, places and incidents either are the 
product of the author’s imagination or are used fictitiously, and any resemblance to any 
actual persons, living or dead, events, or locales is entirely coincidental.
I heard a story, once…it was about a powerful magician of sorts. He had 
obtained the power of creation, and as such, decided to craft creatures in his likeness, 
but because his was a power born of Earth, those creatures, which looked human 
enough, were impervious to fires. 
Truth, it was an odd story, but there is more, you see…. Those creatures often 
found themselves in the midst of flames for one reason or another. This led to them to the 
discovery that they were unnatural. Inevitably, they returned to their master asking why 
it was that such an oddity was prevalent.
“Because I have created you. You are not human.” Such were his responses, and 
more often than not, those creatures went mad from learning the truth…hmph, truth.
It is has always been about truth, and perhaps it is why I like this story so. Now, 
here’s my favorite part. One day, that powerful magician found himself chased from his 
home, due to awful practices no doubt, and so he set up a camp. While sitting at the 
campfire, a creature, we’ll say it was a wolf. I am partial to wolves…but that is another 
story for another time.
Anyhow, this wolf attacked, and the magician fell into the fire. To his dismay, it 
did not burn. You see…he, too, had been created, but by whom? He had no way to learn 
such.
Why do I like this story? I like truth. It never plays out the way we expect. It is not 
a pure light. It is not epiphany. No, my, no. 
Often, truth is a dark and murky thing; a veil of sorts, which we must learn to 
wield in ways proper to the culmination of our very own and personal life experiences.
What is my truth? Well, let’s say…death is not the end, and leave it at that.
He calls himself a necromancer
Gaulder ran across the valley of ash enroute to Cormaire’s lair. T’was valley was 
rife with death. Ancient bones, or cinders thereof, remained strewn about the gnarled and 
blackened trees. Puffs of ash kicked up behind the man’s wake.
Cormaire, the necromancer—as he called himself due to his practices involving 
unlife—hid away deep in the valley of ash. His lair, a cave beneath the putrid land, was 
denoted by a wicked entrance. The cave mouth was carved from a lone stone, which 
stood near the center of the valley; a stone chiseled to resemble a disfigured and pear-
shaped head. Rows of teeth lined the maws of the head—the actual entry.
Ducking his head to enter, Gaulder clutched a bundle of gray cloths; an item 
master Cormaire required to create a revenant was ensconced within. Being an apprentice 
meant being a liaison of sorts, and because Cormaire was unable to travel into town—it 
was an unworthy risk to his life—Gaulder ran errands in exchange for knowledge.
The young man in tattered, dark clothing worked his way through the labyrinth of 
stone corridors. Each hallway was alighted by torches perched in sconces. Eternally, they 
burned. Finally spilling into the sepulcher, the apprentice spotted the bent, aging 
necromancer pulling entrails from a recently deceased.
“Master,” Gaulder called.
“Mm?” Cormaire mumbled without giving his attention.
Instead he dumped the viscera into a bronze bucket.
“It was no mean feat, but…I have it,” Gaulder announced with a smile.
“Yes. Bring it into the light.”
Gaulder swallowed hard. The master was neither pleasant to work with, nor look 
upon. Mostly, the man was covered in dark robes. Even with the hood pulled low over his 
face, the wizard exuded power, and a foul odor. Gaulder approached the stone worktable 
where the dead subject lay with chest cavity open.
“Here,” Gaulder whispered, placing the bundle adjacent the body.
Cormaire waved his apprentice off before unwrapping the bundle. Amidst the 
gray cloths was a polished piece of amber the size of a child’s fist. Encased within was a 
dried, angel trumpet flower.
“It was not easy to obtain.”
“Powerful items seldom are.”
“How, how does it work?”
The old man walked around the worktable. A plethora of ancient tomes sat on 
rotting shelves behind him. Candlelight flickered. Cormaire drew back his hood revealing 
deep wrinkles. He smiled like a Cheshire cat; his teeth surprisingly clean. The apprentice 
shuddered.
“Revenants, my boy, are particularly difficult to raise,” Cormaire explained. 
“Firstly, the body must have perished from unnatural causes, and the bloodier the better. 
Next, as you just saw, the entrails, gallbladder, and bladder must be removed. Then, the 
cavity is stuffed with chaff bound in burlap…this is to keep the body dry.
“Now, we prefer as little trauma to the brain as possible, lest our raised be a 
simpleton. Furthermore, I prefer to add multiple adrenal glands. These can be obtained 
from any dead person, so long as they are not overly decayed. Splicing the glands into the 
body is a rather simple task, and it provides our revenant with boundless strength and 
endurance.
“Finally, the dried flower encased in amber is used to tie the deceased’s spiritual 
nature to the aether; the…between, if you will. If this is not done, a revenant will be 
unable to follow the orders of the necromancer–”
Gaulder made the mistake of interrupting by saying, “But, master, the others 
didn’t require–”
The master’s eyes turned fierce. A furrow creased his brow, and his jowls sank at 
the corners. The dread immediately filled Gaulder’s heart. He looked away.
“Are you finished trying to tell your master what you think is correct?” Cormaire 
hissed.
Gaulder nodded emphatically. The necromancer’s demeanor relaxed, and he 
continued his lesson.
“Revenants are refined creatures. They are unlike the boorish zombies, or ghouls, 
which any inexperienced Necromancer can raise. Revenants need a connecting link 
between the world of the living, and the world of the dead.”
“What purpose do they serve?”
“Ah,” Cormaire nodded, approvingly. “A most intelligent question. Revenants 
nearly pass for the living. With the proper series of incantations, this…young thief, here, 
can certainly be mistaken for a drunken ne’er-do-well.”
“And what will you have him do for you?”
Cormaire grinned again.
Stealing immortality
The necromancer worked tirelessly over the corpse. Having recently implanted 
new adrenal glands, and stuffed the body with chaff, the only remaining aspect of the 
physical changes was the addition of the angel trumpet. Gaulder kept his eyes on the 
entirety of the proceedings. For the most part, Cormaire gave few, verbal instructions.
“Man’s connecting link is an unseen force,” the wizard started. “It protrudes from 
the abdomen; four fingers’ length down from the navel to be exact. This force is what we 
all use to read the world around us, and as such, the angel trumpet is placed there.”
Gaulder maintained a focused gaze on the master. “What do you mean by read the 
world?”
“The universe is magic…all of it. The physical body, too. Magic is a delicate 
force, not in that it can be destroyed. No, my, no. It can yet be disrupted. Altering natural 
flows leads to unnatural consequences.”
“Like bringing the dead to life?”
“Aye.”
Cormaire gingerly slid the amber containing the flower amidst the burlap sacks 
containing chaff. Then, he removed the chest retractors from the corpse. After that, he 
went about reconstituting the ribs and sternum. To reform the bones, he created bone 
meal in a mixing bowl. The whole formula consisted of powdered, bovine femurs, 
pinesap, and human blood.
The necromancer placed the bone meal at every severed juncture by way of a 
round tipped horsehair brush. Then, he meticulously wrapped thin, copper wire around 
every area to hold the bones in place. Suddenly, he left the sepulcher through a back door 
behind the rotting bookshelves. Gaulder remained in thought while looking over the 
corpse.
I hope this is worth it. Certainly, this place is a wealth of knowledge, but what 
good is all this knowledge if it does not yield power? Furthermore, what good is power if 
it leaves one in such a state as Cormaire? He is alone, feared, hunted, and quite 
obviously, in fear of the world around him.
His were the mental ponderings of a man with little to lose. Gaulder was only 
twenty-four, but had little use for a normal life. His parents died while he was a boy, and 
he had no other family. What was I supposed to do, become a thief? It didn’t serve this 
man well. He hanged for stealing a belt. Soon, he will serve master Cormaire as a 
creature of the night. I can’t help but think of that story…the man who turned out to be 
nothing more than a creation….
His thoughts trailed away, yet he kept his gaze on the corpse. Candlelight cast 
dancing shadows from the remnants of bones and other tools in the cavernous room. As 
hours passed, and the bone meal dried, Gaulder busied himself with pouring over the 
arcane texts. It was rare to ever see Cormaire doing the same. How old is he now? Two-
hundred something…?
The texts revealed little of which Gaulder did not already know. Mostly, they 
provided detailed rituals for healing. Cormaire simply applied the practices in a 
contradictory way.  If one knows how to heal, he knows how to damage. Other texts held 
incantations for menial magics such as casting spells of fire, or spells which reveal 
peoples’ tracks. Useful for a man of normality, but I am seeking much more than that.
He had not noticed Cormaire’s return. The old man stitched the corpse’s skin back 
together with cat intestines.
“Come here, boy,” the wizard demanded. Gaulder shut the tome and placed it 
back on the shelf before approaching. “Listen to my words, and know them.”
He was never one for repeating himself. “Oh, darkest of rituals….” Then, he 
paused for a moment, his open hands raised on high. “Let it be known there is no final 
resting place. Grave servitude is what I demand.”
The area around Cormaire’s form started to darken. “Take into your form this air. 
It is not wind, but the breath of life; my breath.”
Gaulder cocked his head to the side. For the first time ever, as he had witnessed 
raisings before, he noted an ephemeral tendril slowly emerge from the deceased’s 
abdomen, the place where the flower rested. It gave a subtle, indigo glow. During 
Cormaire’s pause in the incantation, and while the tendril continued to emerge, another 
tendril—one from the necromancer—came forth. It was black as night.
“What was yours to command is now mine—your life, your thoughts, your 
needs.” Still, the space surrounding Cormaire grew darker. It was as though the darkness 
was consuming him. Gaulder scarcely saw his master anymore. He was little more than a 
gritty voice. “Facets of life. Mere reflections of the soul are mine to manipulate. Rise. 
Rise. Rise! I command it!”
At the climax of the spell, the body on the table stirred. Cormaire grew silent, and 
the darkness diminished. Both men’s tendrils returned to their bodies.
“Stand, revenant,” Cormaire demanded. The man came to his feet. “Gaulder?”
“Sir?”
“Did you see it?”
“The connecting link?”
“Naturally,” Cormaire replied.
“I did, Sir. I thought they were going to touch, but….”
“Nonsense. I could not possibly affect his connecting link with mine. I can, 
however, affect the world with my link in a manner which causes the world to affect his 
link.”
“Perplexing,” Gaulder commented. Cormaire shrugged with indifference. “Now, 
you send this monster to secure the life stone from Etmire Abbey?”
“Certainly. He is ready.”
“If I may, master,” Gaulder pried. “I fail to see the need in sending one undead 
thief to steal what can be taken by force with a legion of lesser zombies.”
“Revenant,” Cormaire called, momentarily ignoring his apprentice. “You will 
look into my memory and know this location.”
The old man walked to his creation, placed hands on his face, and brought his 
eyes close to the monster’s. They looked into each other’s eyes for a moment.
“Do you see it?” The monster nodded. “Now, you will look into my memory and 
see the item I require. Do you see it?” Again, the monster nodded. “You will utilize your 
experience as a thief and recover this jewel. Though you were weak and slow as a man, 
you are quick and strong as a monster. Go!”
The revenant groaned and darted out of the sepulcher like a mountain cat. Gaulder 
remained staring at his master, knowing full well that, in time, an answer to his question 
was coming. Finally, Cormaire turned to him.
“It does not do well to bring down a wall to smash a gnat. Subtlety, my boy.”
“I don’t understand,” Gaulder complained. “I wish to…but what good is all this 
power, and what good is immortality, if you are to remain in this dreadful place?”
Cormaire nodded slowly for a moment. He drew back his hood, sat down on a 
wooden chair, and looked up at the ceiling. Gaulder was slightly nonplussed and cocked a 
brow.
“It is often I ask myself such simple questions,” the wizard answered. “Working 
with unlife is not about power…not as misunderstood by so many, who wish to rule 
kingdoms. It is about control, mastery.
“I started on this path many years ago. I cannot recall a time in which I did not 
wield magic, but raining fire upon nonexistent enemies was never my concern. Mine was 
a quest to unravel the mysteries of life and death.
“What dusty tomes I perused in the great library called Lycaeum provided little 
knowledge, yet we have all—or rather those of us who deal in magic—have all come 
across a zombie or two, so I ventured off in search of necromancers. As you no doubt 
have found out yourself, it is difficult to track one down. I found an old man by following 
a ghoul back to his lair.
“This old man, his name was Baulder, was in need of an apprentice, a liaison, if 
you will, into the common world. Over time, many necromancers are hunted down and 
slain by stalwart warriors or priests who claim to aid the forces of good, but what is good, 
really?
“I recall asking Baulder why he worked alone. Because a den of necromancers 
exudes too much power, and whole townships will unite to slaughter them. That is what 
he told me, and that is what you need to know. Certainly, working closely with a 
necromancer has its benefits; raising many undead without the constriction of time, but 
then those items required in doing so are quickly depleted.
“It is simply safer to work alone. We are often calloused individuals anyway. 
Most of us prefer the company of our creations. Necromancers, in general, do not strive 
for power, but control over our own destiny.”
Gaulder scrutinized his master in reverie. “Is this why you seek immortality?”
“In part, yes,” Cormaire replied. “At its core, mine is a desire to create the perfect 
rendition of man; an undead who is not dead…a simulacrum, like the wizard in my 
favorite story. As it stands, these creatures I have made do not question the world around 
them. They have no recollection of lives past, or concerns of the future.
“Gaulder, my boy, what has brought this line of questions?”
The apprentice smiled, shrewdly. “I’m an orphan. All of my family has been 
slain. I have witnessed nothing but death and despair my whole life, yet there is a legacy 
from ages past. By sitting in darkened corners, and listening to those who are unaware of 
my presence, I have come to learn that my own family was comprised of great 
necromancers. There is nothing else for me to do with my life.”
“Yes,” Cormaire whispered.
“Tell me more of this simulacrum.”
“Clean up this mess, and I will tell you.”
Gaulder nodded before busying himself with sopping up blood. While he grabbed 
a bucket with clean water and some cloths, the master related his knowledge of creation.
“The simulacrum is a living being, though composed of pieces of the dead. His 
heart beats, his mind ponders, and his connecting link with the universe allows him to 
bend the forces of intent to his will as does that of the living. Moreover, this creature can 
be altered time and again in any fashion.
“A powerful necromancer can provide his simulacrum with additional organs, 
limbs, inhuman appendages, and anything else imaginable. The problem lays in the very 
essence of living. To clarify; an undead has no soul. It is dead, yet the body remains 
functioning because of the creator’s will and magic. Given enough time, any zombie will 
rot away. Even my revenant will eventually fall to pieces. 
“The simulacrum wields regenerative properties. It is unclear whether it ages, or 
eventually dies from such, but if a living man can attain immortality, why not the 
simulacrum?”
Gaulder wrung out bloody water from his rag before scrubbing down the stone 
worktable. “This is simply about pushing the limitations on man then?”
“Yes,” Cormaire hissed. “I must discover this process, and I must perfect it.”
“To what end?”
Cormaire leaned over in his chair, and rubbed the back of his head. “I cannot 
answer that. It is an ache in my very soul. I simply must do this.”
Gaulder stood still. The wavering candlelight continued casting fiendish shadows 
about the dark lair.
“Have others achieved immortality?” 
“Naturally,” Cormaire replied.
“Where are they? Have you met them?”
Cormaire turned to glare at the apprentice. “No, but it does not do you well to 
question my judgment.”
“Apologies,” Gaulder said. “That was not my intent, master. I am but eager to 
learn.”
“That is enough for now. When the revenant returns with the life stone, we will 
speak more.”
A truth revealed
The revenant returned to the sepulcher in a poor state. Missing an arm, and with 
rotting face, it stood almost ready to keel over. In its remaining hand was an 
unremarkable, gray stone.
“Give it,” Cormaire demanded. The beast ambled over and relinquished the stone. 
Cormaire’s grin shown from under the edge of his hood. “Now, go consume flesh.”
The revenant groaned and left the lair. Gaulder arched a brow while watching the 
proceedings. Cormaire brought the stone near candlelight.
“I had expected some kind of shiny bauble,” the apprentice commented.
“The life stone is named so because it is a piece of the old world; a time before 
man. When the Gods walked the Earth, they did as they pleased, thus altering the world 
around them. They created oceans, and mountains, and creatures. It is said that one God 
grew tired of the company of his brothers, and strove to create life as he saw fit. To do so, 
he crafted a magic stone from his own heart.
“It is just a story, but there is always some truth. This…this stone will most 
certainly do.”
After finishing his recounting, Cormaire placed the life stone on the worktable. 
“Now, the incantation,” he said, gazing at the stone. “It is the one I learned from 
Baulder.”
“Your master knew how to achieve immortality?”
“He knew the spell, but lacked the location of the stone of life. His final 
instructions to me were to find it. I have spent many years in search…all for this very 
moment.”
“I can’t wait to see what happens,” Gaulder remarked, facetiously.
Cormaire furrowed his brow at the apprentice, who only smiled in return. “Will of 
God,” the wizard started with hands raised high. “The will of man.” He paused to close 
his eyes and breathed deeply. “I call upon the forces of eternity. Time, the immaterial, 
and abstract, invade my presence.”
Gaulder stared at the stone. Nothing of note occurred.
“Place the everlasting in my temporary vessel. Let it never come to pass that this 
body will age. Let it never come to pass that this body will waste away.” A moment of 
silence persisted. Still, nothing happened. “Hm?” Cormaire wondered, aloud. He looked 
to his grinning apprentice. “You mock me?”
“Master….”
“What?” Cormaire grumbled, letting his arms fall to his side.
“Did you know Baulder had a son?”
“What are you babbling about?” the master yelled as he approached Gaulder.
“Yes…you were not his apprentice.”
The muscles in the old man’s face twitched with rage. “Explain yourself!”
“Baulder was father to Thaulder, and he, a father to Raulder…I was Gaulder, after 
Baulder’s father, the first necromancer in my family history,” the young man revealed.
Cormaire simply stood there, unable to utter a word, so Gaulder raised his left 
hand waist high and manifested a glowing ball of fire from his fingers. He flung the 
magic at Cormaire. When it impacted, nothing happened.
“You were born of Earth,” Gaulder said, calmly.
Cormaire looked at his form; it was one impervious to fire. Then, he looked at 
Gaulder, and for the first time, noted the family resemblance.
“You are the first simulacrum ever created. I was charged to find my family’s 
creation and see to it that no harm would come upon it.”
“I-I,” Cormaire stammered.
“Do you have recollection of your childhood?”
The necromancer remained silent for a moment then he whispered, “No.”
“Do you recall a time when Baulder was not present?”
“O-only following the ghoul.”
“In your time away from your master, you set the entirety of your life upon his 
goal. This was no…how did you put it? Ah, yes, an ache in your soul. This was your 
mission, and mine is to perpetuate my family’s goal—to walk the Earth as Gods among 
men.”
When he finished speaking, Cormaire dropped to his knees, and stared at his 
hands. Gaulder approached the worktable and reiterated the incantation of immortality. 
With each segment of the spell finished, the stone glowed brighter and brighter blue. 
With the culmination of the spell, the stone’s light surrounded the young man before 
invading his body through the eyes. When he turned to face Cormaire, Gaulder’s eyes 
shone bright blue.
“I am Gaulder, and now nothing will stop me from ruling this world.”
He stood over his former master with clenched fists. Cormaire bowed his head 
humbly, finally realizing he had been chasing himself.
Visit StoriesbyDennis.com for more grim tales <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Shadows Over Innocence
by Lindsay Buroker
Cover Artwork by Shelly Couvrette 
Cover Design by DD Graphix
Smashwords Edition
Copyright 2012 Lindsay Buroker
Sicarius slipped into an expansive room in the Imperial Barracks, the rambling old 
building that held offices and residences for the emperor and those who assisted him in 
his rule. As the throne's assassin, Sicarius counted as one of those men. He set down a 
large, bloodstained sack and leaned against a pillar in the shadows.
On the far end of the rectangular space, sunlight streamed through the spotless panes 
of tall windows, warming the marble floor and the back of the room's single occupant. 
The small boy pushed a tangled thatch of pale brown hair out of his eyes and hunkered 
over a gleaming, white floor tile, a charcoal stick grasped between his fingers. Heedless 
of the sanctity of the palatial décor, he squiggled lines onto the floor with precise 
squeaks. Sicarius cocked his head, surprised at the intricacy of the pattern forming.
Footsteps echoed from the corridor. Two men, one grayer than the other but both past 
middle age, strode into the bright chamber. The child bolted upright. He clutched the 
charcoal stick behind his back and shrank into himself.
"Sespian!" Raumesys Savarsin, the younger of the two men and the twenty-seventh 
emperor of Turgonia, curled his fingers into a fist and glared at the boy. "What are you 
doing?"
Eyes downcast, Sespian whispered, "Drawing, Father."
Unnoticed by anyone, Sicarius clenched his jaw as he watched from the shadows.
"Drawing." Raumesys turned to the willowy, gray-haired man next to him, 
Commander of the Armies Hollowcrest. "My son, the future emperor and leader of our 
armies, is drawing on the floor of the solarium." He turned back to the boy. "Come here!"
For a moment, Sespian hesitated, eyes darting, as if he might flee into the shadows, 
but Raumesys growled, and the boy plodded forward. Chin drooped to his chest, he 
halted before the men. The emperor bent and grabbed his arm, knuckles whitening. The 
boy flinched, but he did not cry out when the charcoal stick was ripped from his grasp. 
Raumesys snapped it in half, the crack echoing through the silent room like a bone 
breaking.
"Father!" Anguish flashed across the boy's face as the splintered halves clacked to the 
floor and rolled across the marble. "That was my only—"
"And you'll get no more." The emperor dropped to one knee and grabbed Sespian by 
the front of his shirt. "You're five years old now. It's time you stopped playing and started 
learning how to lead a nation. No more foolish scribbling on the floor, do you 
understand?"
"Mother always lets me..."
"Your mother's too soft with you. You will rule a nation of warriors one day. You 
must be strong."
Knowing the shadows hid him, Sicarius let his fingers curl into fists. Not for the first 
time, he was tempted to intervene, to protect the boy from such abuse, but he did not 
move. Speaking against the emperor—thinking against the emperor—was not permitted. 
He had learned that lesson well as a boy.
"No more drawing," Raumesys repeated. He pulled Sespian close, twisting his arm. 
"Do you understand?"
The boy winced. "Yes, Father."
Cold and distant, Commander of the Armies Hollowcrest watched impassively. A 
familiar sight, Sicarius thought, as he remembered Hollowcrest's presence during his 
childhood training sessions. Steal sixteen years, and this moment might have been with 
him. No, he reminded himself; this cruelty was mild compared to what he'd endured. 
Sespian was Raumesys's heir, not some future assassin they were training. The boy would 
learn resilience and survive. Despite the thoughts, it took some effort to force his fists to 
unclench.
"Such frivolity should be punished, Sire," Hollowcrest said.
To deter that punishment, Sicarius picked up the sack and strode into the center of the 
chamber. The emperor, reminded of work matters, ought to send the boy away.
Sespian's eyes bulged at Sicarius's approach. He tried to squirm away from his 
father's grip.
Sicarius knew that, dressed all in black accented with throwing knives and daggers, 
he wasn't the friendliest looking man. He wished he could soften his face for the boy's 
sake, but that wasn't permitted either. As they'd long ago drilled into his head, the face 
must be kept devoid of thought and emotion, lest an enemy gather information from one's 
eyes. He'd been punished relentlessly until he'd mastered a façade that they deemed 
acceptable.
Raumesys noticed Sicarius's approach first and twitched in surprise before recovering 
a more regal bearing.
Hollowcrest did not twitch. He said, "Sicarius," by way of greeting and eyed the sack. 
"Were you successful? Did you get them all?"
"Yes," Sicarius said.
"Let's see," Raumesys said.
Sicarius glanced at Sespian.
Hollowcrest raised an eyebrow. Though thin, wire-framed spectacles perched upon 
his hawkish nose, his dark brown eyes remained sharp, and he missed little. "Concerned 
for the boy?"
Sicarius knew the words were a test. Everything was always a test. "No," he said, 
giving the expected response. "Concern is a feeling, and feelings interfere with duty."
Hollowcrest nodded his approval.
"Sespian will stay," Raumesys said. "Time he learns what comes with the position."
Anger simmered behind Sicarius's carefully constructed mask. The boy was too 
young; he shouldn't have to witness such atrocities. "Understood, Sire," was all he said.
Hollowcrest twitched his fingers in a get-on-with-it motion.
Sicarius untied the bag and upended it. Four severed heads rolled out and bounced on 
the white marble. Though desiccated and distorted after weeks of travel, they were still 
identifiable: man, woman, and children.
Sespian screamed and jerked away from his father. He stumbled, recovered, and fled 
the room. Sicarius was the only one to watch him go.
Raumesys slapped a palm on his thigh. "Excellent."
"Yes," Hollowcrest said. "There'll be no more talk of uniting the tribes in Mangdoria, 
with their most prominent chief dead, along with any hope of worthy scions." He nodded 
to Sicarius. "Go relax. We'll have something new for you in a day or two."
"Yes, sir."
Sicarius padded toward the exit, his soft black boots silent on the tile floor. He paused 
in the doorway and glanced at the backs of the two older men.
The emperor emitted a nervous chuckle. "You trained him too well, Hollow. The man 
bothers me."
"He is loyal."
"I know. You did a good job. I ought to give you Sespian to work with. The boy is 
disappointing."
"He does seem soft," Hollowcrest said.
"Did you hear that scream? I would've been fascinated by severed heads at that age."
"You're fascinated with them now, Sire."
"True enough."
They shared a laugh and headed for the door. Sicarius slipped away before they 
noticed him.
* * *
Darkness pressed against the windows overlooking the large gymnasium in the rear of 
the Imperial Barracks. Sicarius grabbed a towel and wiped sweat from his face and bare 
torso. He'd warmed up with a couple of hours running sprints, scaling the climbing wall, 
and strengthening his muscles with sand-filled bags of various weights. Then he'd talked 
quasi-worthy, off-duty soldiers into wrestling and boxing with him. More precisely, he'd 
stared at them and pointed to the rings painted on the wooden floor until they'd joined 
him. Some of them knew who he was, and others did not, but nobody had disobeyed.
The bouts had been short and not particularly satisfying. For years, Hollowcrest had 
brought in tutors from all over the world to instruct Sicarius on different combat styles, 
and, even though the best soldiers in the army were chosen to work at the Barracks, it'd 
been some time since any had challenged him. Honing a blade on a dull stone was 
difficult, but better than letting it rust. Hollowcrest, Sicarius reminded himself, would 
send him to the Global Grappling Tournament in the summer, an event where the best 
warriors in the world competed for honor and, more important for Sicarius, could learn 
from those better than themselves.
"Men, attention!" someone called from a ring near the doorway.
Everyone stopped in place and stood straight, heels smacking together as Commander 
of the Armies Hollowcrest strode into the gymnasium.
"At ease," he said.
As soon as Hollowcrest wasn't looking in their direction, the soldiers snatched their 
gear and disappeared. Sicarius, doubting the Commander of the Armies had come to 
throw sandbags around, folded his towel, set it on a bench beside his shirt, which was 
also folded, and clasped his hands behind his back to wait.
Hollowcrest stopped before Sicarius. "I told you to relax."
"Yes, sir."
A tight smile of approval creased Hollowcrest's face. They both knew this was what 
he'd meant by the order. He would not have been pleased if he'd found Sicarius anywhere 
else.
"There's a new adjudicator in the northeastern city-state," Hollowcrest said. "He's 
trying to start a desert-wide trade embargo against us. The emperor wants him eliminated. 
You'll leave in the morning."
"Yes, sir." Sicarius picked up his shirt. "And this evening?"
"Do a round of the Barracks. Colonel Bratnuvic took over security last month. His 
work seems adequate." Hollowcrest lifted a shoulder. "But I suspect your experience has 
given you expertise in such matters. Let me know if you find any weaknesses."
"Yes, sir."
Sicarius ghosted through the corridors of the Barracks, questioning guards and noting 
the state of each entrance. He entered the extensive dungeons, and memories of 
childhood training sessions flitted through his mind as he passed walls full of torture 
implements. Prisoners strung from shackles cringed when they noticed him, but he did 
nothing more than register their presence as he checked hidden exits, ensuring they were 
not accessible from the outside.
Before going outdoors to continue his inspection, Sicarius stopped in the kitchen. 
Spoons scraped and pans clattered as two-dozen men and women prepared the evening 
meal. A few noticed him as he entered, and they quickly looked away. Scents of 
complex, spiced dishes brushed his nose, but he chose unseasoned fish and roasted 
vegetables, then retreated to a remote table. He put his back to the corner and watched the 
busy area while he ate.
Halfway through his meal, a familiar figure scampered into the kitchen. The boy 
darted behind the apron of a heavyset woman and peered back the way he had come.
"Prince Sespian." The woman put down a spoon and planted her hands on her hips. 
"What are you doing here? Shouldn't you be with your tutor?"
The boy offered her a shy smile. "I'm hiding from him."
"But why?"
He looked up at her with imploring brown eyes. "He's boring. I don't care about 
armies and history and war and all that stuff."
The woman's eyebrows drew down, but the corners of her mouth twitched.
"Can I stay here?" Sespian asked. "Please?"
She picked him up and plopped him onto a nearby table. "Do you want old Dana to 
get in trouble for hiding a fugitive?"
The boy's gentle eyes widened, and he shook his head.
She clucked her tongue. "You can sit there while we work, but when your tutor finds 
you in here, no more running, yes?"
After a pause, Sespian nodded. As soon as the cook turned her back, he plucked two 
spoons out of a ceramic utensil holder, flipped them around, and began tapping out a 
rhythm on the tabletop. The boy had dexterous fingers. He'd do well at blade lessons 
when he grew older. Or perhaps not. His list of "boring" suggested he had little interest in 
martial matters. Sicarius sometimes wondered what he might have found interesting as a 
boy, if he'd been allowed the freedom to choose his areas of study.
"Where'd you learn that?" Dana asked him, gesturing toward the tapping spoons.
Sespian shrugged. "Just did."
"Ah? You should have a tutor who can give you some music lessons."
A smile started to form on the boy's lips, but it quickly faded. "Father wouldn't let me. 
Father says things like that are worthless." He set down the spoons and dropped his gaze. 
"He took away my pens and paper. He says I can't draw any more."
"Well, you must do as he says."
"He hates me," Sespian whispered too softly for Sicarius to hear, but he read the 
words on the boy's lips.
The cook frowned and patted him on the shoulder. A reedy gray-haired man came in, 
eyes narrowing as he focused on Sespian. He stalked across the room and grabbed his 
wayward student by the arm.
"You've wasted our time tonight, Prince Sespian." He pulled the boy off the table. 
"Now it's bedtime, and you've learned nothing. Surely, the citizens of Turgonia would 
tremble if they knew a boy such as you was being raised to lead them."
Without thinking, Sicarius left his meal and set a path to intersect boy and tutor. He 
stopped in front of them, blocking their route. The tutor's mouth dropped, and he fell 
back a step. Sicarius stared at him, but realized he had nothing to say. The boy had 
nothing to do with his duty—what was he doing?
Sespian's head lolled back, and his eyes widened. When Sicarius looked down at him, 
the boy pulled his arm out of his tutor's grasp. He stumbled back a few steps, then turned 
and sprinted toward the nearest exit.
"Pardon me," the tutor mumbled and darted after Sespian.
Sicarius sighed softly. Meal forgotten, he resumed his inspection. He left the kitchen, 
then the Barracks. Dusk had fallen. He ignored the caress of crisp air on his cheeks, 
noting instead tactical strengths and weaknesses in the structures and walls. By habit, he 
studied each guard, servant, and hired hand he passed, marking walk, build, and weapons 
carried.
A corporal and a private were stationed at the front gate. When he approached, the 
corporal straightened and clicked his heels together. The private, a younger man, eyed 
Sicarius's plain black clothes with furrowed brow. Sicarius wasn't in the Barracks much, 
so there were many people who didn't recognize him, but something about this private 
made him pause. Like his comrade, he wore a gold-piped blue uniform, but unlike his 
comrade, he had Turgonia's insignia, crossed swords over a craggy mountain, pinned to 
his right breast instead of his left. Sicarius stared him in the eye. The private cleared his 
throat and glanced at his superior.
"Help you, sir?" the corporal asked.
Sicarius kept his gaze on the younger man. "For a soldier, there is supposed to be no 
greater honor than serving on the emperor's estate."
"Yes, sir," the private whispered, eyes darting.
"Such an honor that you didn't bother to dress correctly?"
"I..." The private looked down, studying his uniform. After a furtive glance at the 
corporal, realization came, and he touched his chest. "Yes, sir. I mean no, sir. It was an 
accident."
Sicarius listened, placing the man's accent as northeastern Turgonia, the area closest 
to Mangdorian borders. That in itself was not suspect—soldiers were moved around the 
empire often during the course of their careers—but coupled with the misplaced 
insignia…
"New man, corporal?" Sicarius asked.
"Yes, sir. Came up from the garrison just today."
The private shifted his weight.
"Anyone come through the gates while you've been on shift?" Sicarius asked.
"Some folks left," the corporal said, "but none have come in since I got on. Except... I 
got sick for a bit and the private was alone."
"Sick?"
"Had to run to the latrine. Something I ate…" The corporal squinted at his younger 
comrade. "He brought pastries at the start of—"
The private shoved the corporal into Sicarius and bolted. He fled out the gate, skidded 
on the flagstones, and disappeared around the corner. Sicarius pushed the soldier aside 
and raced after the man. His prey sprinted down the street, running in and out of the 
influence of gas lanterns burning on the Imperial Barracks' outer wall, and toward the 
trolley tracks and roadways of the city. He must have hoped to evade pursuit amongst the 
buildings and dark alleys. On the parapet above, guards patrolled—guards with access to 
muskets and cannons—but no one fired at the fleeing man. Of course not. He wore an 
army uniform. Sicarius might have yelled up and explained the situation, but it'd be more 
efficient to simply handle the spy himself.
He increased his speed, arms pumping as hard as his legs. The spy's boots thudded on 
roads slick with frost, and crystallized puffs of air drifted behind as he ran, his ragged 
breaths audible in the still evening. As he'd been so trained, Sicarius made not a sound. 
He closed the distance. Ten meters. Five.
The man sprinted through a square at the base of the hill and glanced back, perhaps 
believing he'd outrun his pursuer. His eyes bulged when he spotted Sicarius just behind. 
The spy's jaw firmed, and he whipped his sword from its sheath, turning around as he did 
so, holding it out, perhaps hoping Sicarius might impale himself.
Sicarius shifted his weight and, between one step and the next, halted out of blade 
reach. A few passersby paused, heads cocked.
"Criminal!" the soldier shouted, pointing at Sicarius with his sword.
At the private's proclamation, citizens opened their doors and came outside. 
Pedestrians murmured to each other. More than one person touched a sword or dagger. 
Without rank or uniform, Sicarius did not bother arguing. He kept the encroaching 
citizens in mind, but focused on his opponent.
Falling into a ready crouch, the spy brandished his blade. A smug smile creased his 
face. Sicarius had no sword with him, and he had not drawn a knife.
Certainly believing his opponent helpless, the spy lifted an arm to strike. Sicarius 
stepped aside, dodging the blow easily, then lunged in behind the attack. He grasped the 
man's wrist and twisted it against the joint, catching the sword when it dropped. The man 
squawked in pain and tried to pull away. Sicarius snaked his leg behind his opponent's 
knee, sweeping him off balance. Only the arm Sicarius wrapped around the man's neck 
kept him from pitching to the street. The spy clawed at the grip, but Sicarius merely 
squeezed harder. Soon his opponent's breaths came in wheezes.
The approaching citizens hesitated. Without releasing his man, Sicarius lifted the 
soldier's blade and eyed them with a cool stare. Their hands dropped from their weapons, 
and they backed away.
"Who did you let through the gate?" Sicarius asked his prisoner.
The soldier squirmed, but did not answer. Sicarius dropped the sword and gouged his 
thumb into the depression at the back of the man's jaw. He dug at the point until the man 
whimpered.
"Mangdorians... hired assassin... emperor."
Bone cracked as Sicarius broke the man's neck. He dropped the body and raced back 
to the Imperial Barracks. He'd made a mistake. Someone had seen him on his mission; 
that was the only explanation. The Mangdorians were reputed to prefer peace and 
negotiation to conflict and war, but Sicarius had encountered more than one warrior from 
that nation; not everyone believed in their god's tenets. If someone had hired an assassin, 
and if the man were successful... it would be Sicarius's fault.
The corporal at the gate had gathered more soldiers. His eyebrows rose at Sicarius's 
approach.
"There's an assassin inside," Sicarius said. "Sweep the grounds. Tell Hollowcrest."
Before the corporal could respond, Sicarius sped across the courtyard toward the 
entrance to the Barracks. He took the steps three at a time, tore open the massive doors, 
and ran down the gleaming marble corridors. On the third floor, he reached the emperor's 
suite. Two armored men wearing the black uniforms of the emperor's personal bodyguard 
stood to either side of the door.
"Sir, you can't—"
"The emperor's not to be—"
Sicarius ignored them and pushed through the door. Raumesys was sprawled naked 
on his divan with three equally naked young women draped over him. His head jerked 
up, face twisting with rage. When he identified Sicarius, his features grew more hesitant, 
but his eyes remained cold.
Schooled features neutral, Sicarius eyed the women with professional detachment. All 
three were familiar, which did not discount them, but made them unlikely assassins. He 
ignored the emperor's sputtering protests and stalked through the suite, searching the 
shadows. He found nothing.
Hollowcrest burst through the door. Six armed and armored men clanked in after him.
"Yes," Raumesys said, throwing a bare arm toward the ceiling. "Everyone come in. 
I'm obviously not busy!"
"There's an assassin on the premises," Hollowcrest said.
Instead of grabbing a weapon—or clothing—Raumesys tugged one of the girls over 
his chest. The guards placed themselves at strategic points around the room.
Satisfied that the emperor had enough men—and women—protecting him, Sicarius 
slipped into the hallway. He considered the layout of the Barracks, selecting likely hiding 
places and identifying other possible targets. Raumesys's wife? Or—a sickening thought 
flashed through Sicarius's mind, and his stomach lurched.
He took off again, candles blurring past. He turned a corner and stopped before an 
unguarded door—a door that should have been guarded. A dark smudge stained the floor. 
He bent and touched it. Fresh blood.
Sicarius eased the door open, afraid of what he would find inside. He pushed the 
thoughts aside and reached for his usual calm detachment. He had seen death in all its 
cruelties, delivered it in more cases than he could remember. Living or dead, one boy 
should not bother him.
Inside, shadows lurked. Sicarius moved away from the door, so that he wouldn't be 
silhouetted against the light of the hall.
A low-burning lantern glowed on a table beside a canopied bed that dwarfed the five 
year old curled in the sheets. Against his instincts, Sicarius let his eyes rest on the boy for 
a moment. He caught the rise and fall of rhythmic breathing, and an iota of relief trickled 
through his mind.
A faint rustle sounded. Sicarius crouched, muscles tense. He had not moved, and 
neither had the boy. Anyone who had watched him come in would know precisely where 
he was.
Willing calm into his mind and relaxation into his muscles, he scanned the room. 
Curtains and furniture cast thick, irregular shadows. As his eyes drifted away from one 
corner, movement drew them back. Reflexively, he dropped into a roll.
Something whisked over his head, pinging off the wall.
Sicarius came up running, his soft boots soundless on the thick carpet as he cut 
toward the source. The intruder stepped out to meet him. With a soft rasp, a small blade 
appeared, light from the hall revealing a gooey dark substance on the edge.
As Sicarius closed, the dagger slashed toward him. He melted away from the strike, 
then darted in, catching the man's forearm. He glided in closer, turned his hip, and hurled 
the would-be assassin over his shoulder. The man proved agile, though, and wriggled out 
of the throw before he hit the ground. Like a cat, he landed on his feet. But for a split 
second, he was off balance, and Sicarius struck. Lightning-quick, he slammed a punch 
into his foe's kidney. The force of the blow sent the man stumbling forward. Sicarius 
leaped after him, but, before he reached his target, the assassin whirled, slashing with the 
dagger. It was a desperate attack from a wounded opponent, but that didn't make the 
poison on the blade any less dangerous. Forcing himself to defend with careful, mindful 
precision, Sicarius knocked the arm wide and stepped close, launching a punch. The man 
blocked it, but the attack had been meant as a distraction, and Sicarius slammed his heel 
into his foe's knee at the same time.
The intruder went down, but he took another wild swipe with the dagger. Sicarius 
leaped backward and would have evaded the attack easily, but he'd forgotten his 
surroundings; he came up short, bumping into the bed's footboard.
Sicarius chastised himself—men died from such mistakes—even as he anticipated the 
coming attack and twisted to the side. The poisoned blade cut through his shirt, missing 
flesh by a hair. Momentum carried the dagger into the footboard, the tip sinking into the 
wood. The assassin wasted a split second trying to free it. Recognizing the advantage, 
Sicarius pounced. He spun his foe around, pinning him against the footboard, and found 
his neck. Perhaps trained as Sicarius had been, the man died in silence.
On the bed, Sespian mumbled something and stirred. Sicarius let out a slow breath 
and lifted his head. The boy did not open his eyes.
After a moment, Sicarius rose. He sheathed the man's dagger, found and pocketed a 
miniature crossbow, and slung the body over his shoulder. He trod across the carpet 
toward the door and stopped to pick up the tiny quarrel that had started the confrontation. 
The tip glistened with freshly applied poison. He left the room, shifting the weight of the 
body so that he could softly close the door.
"Sicarius!" came Hollowcrest's surprised voice as he rounded the corner. "I came to 
check on the heir..." He noticed the corpse. "I realized the boy might be a target."
"Astute," Sicarius murmured. "Sir."
Hollowcrest gave him a sharp look, then nodded toward the body. "Get rid of that."
"Yes, sir."
* * *
Sicarius found the bodies of Sespian's missing guards stuffed in a nearby room with 
the assassin's gear. The man had traveled light: a change of clothes, trail rations, 
sharpening stone, and a flat wooden box.
Before opening the box, Sicarius brushed sensitive fingers along the surface. He 
found a slight depression disguised as part of the grain. Pressing it produced a soft click. 
With wary hands, he opened the box. The tiny dart poised underneath the lid did not 
shoot out. Mindful of the tip, he removed it and fingered the contents.
Tucked inside lay a book, a pen, a charcoal stick, two brushes, and three tiny jars of 
paint. When he flipped through the book, he discovered the reason for the other items. 
The first few pages were filled with notes and detailed maps of the Imperial Barracks, the 
capital, and the nearby army fort. Perhaps the assassin intended to be paid twice, once by 
the vengeful Mangdorians and once by someone who craved information on imperial 
defenses.
Suspecting Hollowcrest would want to know about the work, Sicarius tore out the 
pages to give to him. Then he considered the box for a moment.
He tucked it under his arm and strode into the hall. For the second time that night, he 
stopped before Sespian's door. The guard had not yet been replaced. Sicarius noted the 
inefficiency and slipped into the room.
Little had changed; the boy lay on his side, fingers curled on the pillow, pale locks 
caressing his cheek. Sicarius wondered what it would be like to work for Sespian when 
he became emperor. Would he retain any of his innocence or would Raumesys and 
Hollowcrest steal it from him?
For Sicarius, duty was all he knew, all he had ever known, and he would not shirk it, 
but perhaps it was possible to shape the future of it? Or did his reasons for returning have 
nothing to do with duty at all?
He pushed aside the confusing thoughts and set the box on the bedside table. His lip 
twitched as an image flickered through his mind, and he hoped Sespian would be wise 
enough not to apply the paints to the solarium floor, at least not when Raumesys was 
around.
Sicarius returned to the hall and took up position by the door until the new guard 
came.
~ <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Six Impossible Things
short stories
by Renee Carter Hall
Copyright 2012 Renee Carter Hall
Smashwords Edition
Smashwords Edition, License Notes
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold 
or given away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, 
please purchase an additional copy for each recipient. If you’re reading this book and 
did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your use only, please return to 
Smashwords.com and purchase your own copy. Thank you for respecting the hard work 
of this author.
***
Alice laughed. "There's no use trying," she said: "one can't believe impossible 
things." 
"I daresay you haven't had much practice," said the Queen. "When I was your 
age, I always did it for half-an-hour a day. Why, sometimes I've believed as many as six 
impossible things before breakfast."
--Lewis Carroll, Through the Looking Glass
 
***
Table of Contents
Childish Things
Moon, June, Raccoon
Norma the Wal-Mart Greeter Meets the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse
Swear Not By the Moon
Drawn From Memory
The Garden
About the Author
***
Childish Things
When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but 
when I became a man, I put away childish things.  
--1 Corinthians 13:11 (KJV)
When I became a man, I put away childish things, including the fear of childishness and 
the desire to be very grown up. 
--C. S. Lewis, "On Three Ways of Writing for Children"
David sat in the hospital cafeteria, sipping coffee that had gone cold half an hour 
before. It didn't matter; he wasn't thirsty, wasn't hungry. He felt rather like the corridors 
around him: white and blank and cold.
He twisted his wedding band around and around on his finger. It was a little loose; 
he supposed that meant he'd lost weight, and any other time he would have been glad. 
Instead, all he could think about was how this same gold ring had encircled his newborn 
daughter's entire arm. How her tiny red body, delicate and fragile as a butterfly's wing, 
bristled with needles and tubes hooked to monitors and machines he couldn't even name, 
let alone understand.
Some things, he thought idly, are good when they come early. Repairmen, for 
instance. Spring after a hard winter. A raise, a promotion. But not a child, not a baby who 
still needed two and a half months before she would have been ready for the world that 
now pressed so heavily upon her.
He wanted to be upstairs with Amy, in the NICU--neonatal intensive care unit, a 
name far bigger than its occupants--but she had made it clear that he needed to eat 
something, especially since they were going to be here all night. So he'd come down here 
with the idea of obeying, because she was right, of course, in the way she always was, the 
way that saw to the heart of things, to the heart of him--but he'd looked at plastic-
wrapped turkey sandwiches and wilting Caesar salads and cups of layered Jell-O, and 
nothing had looked good. Nothing had even looked real. He wanted...
He wanted to be home, all three of them home where they belonged. He wanted to 
watch Amy nurse Caitlyn, wanted to rock his daughter in the chair he'd refinished just a 
few weeks before, wanted to put her to bed first in the frilly bassinet, then later, when she 
was bigger, in the white crib with the plush mobile of moons and stars hanging over it. 
He wanted to watch her sleep, without the discordant electronic lullaby of the monitors 
and pumps and respirator all keeping mechanical time.
He rubbed his eyes and looked at his watch. The doctor was coming by in an hour 
and a half, and then the longest night of their lives--all their lives--would start. They had 
agreed that turning off the respirator was the best thing to do, the only thing to do.
She would breathe on her own, through the night, through every night afterward.
Or...
Or, she wouldn't. It was that simple.
Hell would not be red with fire, David decided on his way back to the NICU. It 
would be white, and sterile, and cold. It wasn't about being tortured yourself; it was 
having to watch the pain of someone you loved more than your own soul. And being 
utterly helpless to do anything about it.
***
And then the elevator stopped.
He was, of course, alone. He swore and jammed the red emergency button. 
Silence.
He leaned back against the wall and closed his eyes. God, he was so tired. Tired 
of this place, tired of the hollow look in Amy's eyes, tired of other people's sympathy. 
Tired of being what he had to be: strong for Amy, supporting her, getting them through 
this...
Something touched his arm.
He jerked away, looking around, the metal walls casting hazy reflections around 
him. Nothing.
He shook his head. He'd dozed off, that was all. Understandable, given how little 
sleep he'd had.
Then something warm pressed against his arm, and he knew something was 
there--he could feel a tingling presence at the edge of his perception--
"Keep it together, Dave," he said out loud. "You can crack up when this is all 
over. Not before. All you have to do--"
A shape coalesced before him, first a color, a bright reddish purple, then a form--
it was an animal, how had an animal gotten in a closed elevator?--and then it was solid 
and real and warm breath on his face as he sank down to the floor.
David reached out his hand and touched fur.
"Jinks," he whispered.
And the voice came back to him from thirty years before, but still the same, 
everything the same, the voice gentle and rich and kind.
"Hello, David. It's been a long time."
***
David got to his feet on the first try, which surprised him. "You're... smaller than I 
remember."
Jinks smiled. "You've grown a bit since you saw me last."
David tried to take it in. Standing before him was a quadrupedal big cat, with a 
coat of thick purple fur highlighted with white at the belly and paws. He was just as 
David remembered: the same short, curling white horns at his brow, the same saber teeth, 
the same green stripes ringing his impossibly long tail. And the same luminous green 
eyes, which right now held a highly amused expression.
"I'm hallucinating," David said. "Right?"
Jinks stretched. "Never fails. When kids see something they can't explain, it's 
magic. When adults see something they can't explain, they're cracking up. It's a pretty 
limiting way of looking at the world, if you ask me." He stretched his back legs, 
spreading his toes, then turned back to David, putting his front paws on David's shoulders 
and bringing his face close enough that David could smell Jinks' breath, which smelled 
oddly like grape Kool-Aid.
"You do remember, don't you?" Jinks asked.
"Um..." David tried to pull away. "A little personal space would be nice."
Jinks chuckled. "Personal space, huh? Oh, you have one--if you remember it."
And then, David did. "The kingdom of Davidia..."
"That's my boy," Jinks said, grinning, leaping back, chasing his tail for joy. "I 
knew you wouldn't forget! Other Ellusa's children forget, but not you."
"Ell... usa?"
"Imaginary friends. The technical term, anyway." Jinks padded over to the 
elevator panel and stood on his hind legs to press a purple button David knew hadn't been 
there before. The elevator hummed back to life, and he felt the car ascending.
"What happens to an Ellusa if their child forgets?" David asked.
Jinks looked puzzled. "Nothing. You forget us. We don't forget you."
The doors opened, and David breathed a sigh of relief--then froze.
This wasn't the hospital.
Before them stretched a green meadow with golden mountains beyond. A great 
tree stood in the center of the meadow, its branches thick and twisting, every leaf a 
different color. Sixty-four leaves, he knew; sixty-four colors. He'd used every single color 
in his box of crayons.
Jinks ambled through the doors, then looked back over his shoulder. "You 
coming?"
"I..." He looked at his watch, which didn't seem to be running. "I have to be..."
"Don't worry. No such thing as time here."
Looking around, David could believe that. Everything looked exactly as he'd 
imagined it so long ago: the soft grass, the bubbling stream--fizzing, actually, since it was 
orange soda instead of water--and, of course, the tree.
"The magic tree," David said, touching its smooth bark.
Jinks chuckled. "Why don't you see if it still works?"
David smiled and reached up to pluck a leaf from one of the branches. As the 
stem gave way, he found himself holding a peanut butter sandwich, with jelly the color of 
Jinks' coat--and, he noted with satisfaction, the crusts cut off.
Jinks shook his head. "I can't believe you still make Amy cut the crusts off."
David smiled sheepishly and took a bite. It tasted good; it tasted real. Then he 
frowned and looked back at Jinks. "You know about Amy?"
Jinks nudged him, purring. "I told you, we don't forget you. Ellusa don't disappear 
when their kids grow up. We're still there. It's just like pulling teeth to get you to see us, 
that's all."
"So you've been..."
"With you all this time," Jinks said quietly. "Yes."
David stared out across the meadow a moment, the sandwich forgotten. "Those 
dreams..."
"Were they?" Jinks asked.
He remembered being in that state between sleeping and waking, those nights 
when worry kept him from sleep--worrying over exams or dates or job interviews, or that 
he would do something stupid at the wedding and somehow lose the soulmate he still 
couldn't believe he had--and then there would be a feeling of peace, a kind of spiritual 
warmth stealing silently over him, easing him into sleep, into dreams of green meadows 
and a voice telling him everything would be all right.
And then, he remembered something else.
"Yes," Jinks said. "I was there, too."
His father's funeral. His mother stately in her grief, his sister dabbing at her eyes 
with a crumpled tissue, and David wondering if any of them were really feeling anything, 
wondering what they would do if he broke down the way he desperately wanted to, 
needed to, except that sons weren't supposed to, boys didn't cry and men weren't even 
supposed to have hearts as far as he could tell--
--and there had been a brushing of a breeze against his pants legs, and that sudden 
peace that came over him like sunlight after rain. And later he'd noticed that he must have 
gotten into some purple lint somewhere--
--not lint, it was hair--
"That was you," David said, his voice barely a whisper.
Jinks' green eyes held great sorrow, great love. "You needed me. So I was there."
David leaned back against the tree, looking up through the rainbow of leaves. 
Then he thought of something and laughed. "You know, I never imagined anything for 
you to hunt back then. What did you eat, anyway?"
"Your leftovers," Jinks replied, licking peanut butter from his fangs. "Not bad, but 
I'd rather have crunchy."
Jinks washed his paws and lay down, and David rested against the cat's flank, 
wondering if the Ellusa hadn't gotten bigger since they'd come back to Davidia. "You 
used to be big enough that I could ride on your back," David said.
"You used to be small enough for that," Jinks corrected him. Then the Ellusa 
laughed. "Remember when you slayed the dragon?"
"Water guns," David remembered. "I shot him with water guns until I put out his 
fire, and then he flew away..."
"And left all his treasure behind, and you paraded around in that crown, and all 
those jewels so heavy you could hardly stand up."
"And I put gold rings on your horns and your tail, until you got mad at me and 
made me take them off." David touched his wedding band, and the image of it around 
Caitlyn's arm came back like a shadow falling over him.
Jinks rested a heavy paw on David's knee. "You learned to be brave here."
David thought of the sick helpless feeling that he'd lived with for so long that he 
almost didn't even notice it anymore. "Did I?" he asked.
A breeze stirred the leaves, and a burnt sienna one broke off, swirled into his lap, 
and became a chocolate chip cookie, warm from the oven. David ignored it. "Did you 
bring me here to forget?"
Jinks shook his head. "No. I brought you here to remember."
David looked up again. Tears blurred the leaves into a kaleidoscope. "I'd rather 
forget. I'd rather be five again," when you didn't have to worry about anything, think 
about anything, when you didn't have to be strong for anyone, not even yourself...
Thoughts, feelings, memories--everything crashed over him, and he wept, and 
Jinks was warm comfort, thick fur to bury his face in, the Ellusa's voice deep and sweet.
"You learned to cry here, too," Jinks said. "I should have told you then that it was 
all right to do it out there."
At last, when he was spent, Jinks licked the tears from his face and purred, a 
heavy rumble that sounded in David's chest as much as his ears. David smiled. "I 
remember when you broke the lamp."
Jinks' eyes narrowed in mock rage. "Hey, kiddo, I had nothing to do with that. 
And your mother knew better, too, you little liar--"
"I'm a liar? Who told me I could sprout wings here if I jumped off that cliff?"
Jinks grinned. "I couldn't help myself; it was so funny the way you flailed around 
before you hit."
David shoved him playfully, and Jinks took a swipe at him with one paw, ruffling 
his hair. "That could have been your head, you know," Jinks taunted, leaping away.
"Get back here, you big furball!" David chased after him, grabbing a handful of 
leaves and pelting the cat with chocolate-frosted cupcakes.
"Not the sprinkles!" Jinks pretended to stagger, then flopped onto his side. "Not... 
the..." His eyes closed. "Sprinkles..."
David was out of breath from laughing by the time he reached Jinks. The cat 
knocked David off his feet with one idle swipe, then got to work licking the frosting from 
his fur.
David looked up. The sky was turning pink, deepening to orange at the horizon. 
"Sunset," he said.
Jinks glanced at the sky, gave his ruff a final pass, then got to his feet. "Come on, 
then. Time to go back."
***
David looked at his watch. Four thirty-three A.M. Amy had finally fallen asleep 
in the chair, the night nurse had moved on, and now he was alone in his vigil.
He watched Caitlyn's chest rise and fall, rise and fall. Every breath a little closer, a 
little stronger, every breath her own way of saying I'm here. I'm here and I'm staying. 
Every breath a gift and a prayer.
He felt Jinks beside him before he saw him, and spoke quietly so he wouldn't 
wake Amy. "Do you know what's going to happen?"
"The Ellusa aren't given that sight," Jinks replied. "We love who we're given to 
love, for as long as we can." He paused. "Just as you do."
He was gone then, and David turned back to the incubator. Caitlyn breathed 
before him, Amy breathed deeply in her sleep behind him. Moment by moment, breath 
by breath, the night gave way, and the sky outside the windows gentled into dawn.
***
He didn't see Jinks again until more than two months later. They had brought 
Caitlyn home, finally, and she slept now in the pink nursery just as he'd imagined all 
those weeks ago. Still, he found himself up several times a night, even when she wasn't 
crying, just to check on her, to watch her chest rise and fall. To make sure she was still all 
right.
Jinks appeared on the seventh night. "David," he said quietly, "it's time."
David frowned. "Time for what?"
Jinks swallowed. "You asked what happens to Ellusa when their kids grow up. 
Well, the whole truth is, we don't stay forever. We can't.
"You have a child of your own now, David. So you have to release me."
David stared at him. "What if I don't?"
Jinks smiled sadly. "I'll still be with you for a while, for as long as I can. But then 
I'll start to fade, and I'll keep fading until I'm gone. For good."
"And if I release you... what happens? Where do you go?"
"To another child, to be their Ellusa, as I was time and again long before you were 
born." Jinks paused. "You were a good kid, David," he said, his voice rough. "I'll miss 
you. But it's time."
David tried to blink back tears, then let them fall. "What do I have to do?"
"Tell me goodbye."
David nodded. He took a slow breath, then hesitated. "Will I ever see you again?"
Jinks put his paws up on the bassinet and nuzzled the baby gently. "She's 
beautiful, David. She's got your eyes." He turned back. "Maybe," he said at last, with a 
slight smile. "If you can recognize me."
David knelt and hugged Jinks around the neck. Jinks was purring again, and 
David wondered which one of them it was meant to soothe.
"Goodbye, Jinks," he said, and even as he spoke, even with his eyes closed, he felt 
the fur fading, dissolving like cotton candy under his fingers, until he held nothing, and 
even the silent presence was gone.
***
Caitlyn tipped her toy teapot over David's cup and passed him a plate of plastic 
cookies. He'd decided it was best to sit on the floor; he wasn't sure his knees could handle 
the tiny chair.
Caitlyn served her stuffed dog next, then the doll her aunt had given her. Then she 
turned to the empty room. "And how do you take your tea, Hopscotch?"
Caitlyn listened a moment, then came to whisper in David's ear. "He says he 
wants a peanut butter sandwich."
"Oh," David said. "Well, he is a guest... How about I go make one for him?"
"Okay."
"Would you like one, too? With jelly?"
Caitlyn conferred with Hopscotch. "Strawberry, please. And--"
"No crusts," David finished. "Okay."
David smiled as he made the sandwiches. Caitlyn had an incredibly vivid 
imagination, and he loved watching it at work. He'd have to ask her what this Hopscotch 
looked like. A rabbit, maybe?
He carried the plate out of the kitchen, grabbing the milk on the way. Imaginary 
tea wasn't going to do much to wash down peanut butter. He headed down the hall to her 
room--and stopped at her doorway.
There was something--someone?--in there with her.
Heart pounding, he took a step closer, edging forward until he could peek around 
the door. There, amid Caitlyn's toys and dolls and stuffed animals, stood a horse. A very 
small horse, to be sure, but with legs so long it was hard to think of it as a pony. Then 
again, no horse or pony had ever had a mint green coat and iridescent blue butterfly 
wings.
"Hopscotch," he said softly, wondering...
The horse looked up and caught his eye. Its eyes, David saw, were a very 
luminous, very familiar shade of green.
And then the horse flickered and faded and was gone, though Caitlyn could still 
see him, judging by the way she reached out to stroke where Hopscotch's nose would 
have been. David waited a moment to compose himself, then brought the sandwiches in.
"Thank you, Daddy," Caitlyn said.
"You're welcome, sweetie." David picked up a sandwich and held it out to the air. 
"Hopscotch, would you like a sandwich?"
"Daddy," Caitlyn scolded him in a loud whisper, "that's his tail."
"Oh." David smiled. "Sorry."
And from somewhere very far away, from a place where there was no time, David 
thought he heard a low chuckle. But it might have only been his imagination.
###
Moon, June, Raccoon
Hoping no one could see me, I placed the little package under the tree, bowed 
three times to the full moon, briefly pretended to be looking for something in the 
withered grass, just in case someone was watching, then ducked back into the house. The 
screen door screeched as I yanked it closed. I had three new mosquito bites on my legs.
In short, I was itchy, embarrassed, and completely desperate.
I had found the spell, complete with step-by-step color illustrations, in a book in 
the New Age section of the local megastore. I hated buying the book, but I was afraid I 
wouldn't be able to remember all the details, and who knew what would happen if you 
messed that sort of thing up.
So I'd followed the directions to the letter, saying the words, carving the two 
hearts into the apple, wrapping it up in pink paper and ribbon like a little gift. The 
directions said to take it to a "natural place, like a park or the woods." There weren't any 
woods nearby, and the closest park was a twenty-minute drive away, so I'd figured that 
under any tree was natural enough, and the one in my own postage-stamp backyard was 
going to have to do.
Try to understand, I had already been to two weddings that June, both friends 
from college. An engagement party was coming up, another friend just had her first baby, 
and another one was trying. And I was sick of being happy for everyone else, sick of 
blind dates and stupid matchmaking websites, sick of drinking coffee I didn't like with 
men I could never like, let alone love.
And anyway, they say the full moon makes people do crazy things. Of course, 
they say love makes people do crazy things, too, but I wouldn't know anything about that.
So I did the spell, and I tried to laugh at myself, and I geared up for another 
exciting evening watching stupid sitcoms and scratching my mosquito bites and eating 
mint chocolate chip ice cream.
And I didn't think about the spell again. At least, not until exactly twenty-four 
hours later.
***
When I heard the scratching at the screen door, I thought it was the neighbors' cat, 
a scruffy orange tom who sometimes forgets exactly which townhouse he belongs in.
I turned on the outside light.
It was a raccoon.
We looked at each other. I noticed it was sitting up on its haunches, holding 
something.
"Hi," it said.
I took a step backward. I opened my mouth, but nothing came out. He, on the 
other hand--the voice was definitely male--kept talking.
"Nice night, huh? Not too humid. Good breeze."
I saw then what he was holding: my apple, the two carved hearts turning brown.
"Listen," he continued, "I'm, you know, flattered and everything. But... well, I just 
don't think it would work out in the long run. So I thought--it's really a sweet gesture, and 
you're not all that bad-looking for a human, but I really can't accept this." And he held out 
the apple with both paws.
"Raccoons don't talk," I managed, finally.
"Actually, we do. Everything does. You just don't listen."
Slowly, his words started to sink in. I looked at the apple. "That wasn't for you."
He eyed me skeptically. "You left it under my tree."
"It was..." Why was I explaining myself to a raccoon? "Never mind. It was a 
mistake. You can keep it if you want."
The raccoon shrugged and took a bite. "Y'know, there's a produce stand about two 
miles from here where you can get apples that actually taste like something."
I stared at him while he finished the apple. Was this the first sign of some kind of 
nervous breakdown, seeing talking animals on your back porch? Or maybe it was an 
early warning sign of a stroke. Did people hallucinate with those? Should I call 911?
I considered my options. I could close the door, go back to the empty laughter on 
TV for another night, and try to dismiss this as some bizarre stress-induced episode.
Or...
Curiosity got the better of me, and I took a deep breath. "Would you like to come 
in?"
***
"Nice place," he said, glancing around.
"It's kind of a mess," I apologized. "I wasn't expecting... guests."
"I've seen worse." He held out a paw. "Name's Krispy Kreme, by the way."
I blinked. "Your name's Krispy..."
He held up his other paw to stop me. "My mother had a sweet tooth, okay? 
Considering that my sister is Sara Lee and my brother is Ben&Jerrys, I think I came off 
all right. Call me Kris."
I shook his paw. "I'm--"
"Karen Sheffield, thirty-one, bachelor's in English, works for Taylor & Bradshaw, 
and you write some pretty decent poetry even though you keep getting rejection slips." 
He paused. "You might want to think about buying a shredder." With that, he loped off to 
the fridge.
I followed. "Wait a minute. How do you know how to read?"
Kris sampled three different flavors of protein shake, wrinkling his nose at each 
one. "The Martins down the street have a kid who watches all that educational stuff. They 
keep their windows open a lot. I can read, count to twenty, sing 'C is for Cookie,' and 
figure out which thing isn't like the others. I think my education's pretty much complete."
I couldn't argue with that.
"Speaking of education," he added, tossing the shake cans into the trash and 
moving on to the freezer, "we need to teach you a thing or two about eating. First off," he 
squinted at a frozen dinner, "disodium inosinate is not food. And neither is that third-rate 
Chinese takeout stuff you get twice a week."
"I'm supposed to take culinary advice from an animal who eats out of dumpsters?"
"Hey, I don't have much of a choice. And don't turn this around. We're talking 
about you here, not me." He left the kitchen and settled himself on the couch in the living 
room. "You don't have company over very much."
"How can you tell?"
He gestured to the couch. "Just your scent. Nothing male--or mingled," he added 
with a wink.
"Don't tell me you learned that on educational TV."
"Yeah, well, the Robinsons never close their blinds." He stretched. "So why not?"
"Why not what?"
"Why aren't you out with somebody tonight instead of leaving lousy apples in 
your yard?"
I started to give some kind of glib answer, but then I stopped and actually tried to 
think of the best way to explain it. "I'm tired of being with people and still being lonely."
Kris studied me a moment. "Hm. Well, being lonely with people still seems better 
than being lonely by yourself. At least it has more potential."
"Maybe." I shrugged.
"So what are you looking for?"
I had used up all my energy for introspective answers. "I don't know. The same 
things everybody's looking for."
"Honest, caring, loyal, sensitive, good sense of humor?"
I cringed. Those were the qualities I'd written on the pink paper used to wrap the 
apple. "Yeah. So?"
"The perfect guy."
"I guess."
Kris shook his head. "Listen, when you spend as much time as I do going through 
people's garbage, you find out more about them than you really want to know. And the 
first thing you learn is, nobody's perfect. I can tell you, everybody's just as messed up and 
scared and unsure as you are, just in their own way."
"You must have watched Mister Rogers, too," I said dryly, and turned on the TV.
"I'm just saying," he replied with a shrug, then settled down to watch. "You got 
any popcorn?"
I sighed.
***
A few nights later he was at the back porch again, dragging some wrinkled bundle 
of paper behind him.
"This is your idea of a hostess gift?" I asked as he handed it to me.
"Just take a look."
We went inside. It was a sketchbook, the spiral kind. About half the pages had 
been torn out, and the rest were wavy and stained with things I didn't want to think about.
I opened it to the first page, and my jaw literally dropped. It was a portrait, 
precisely rendered in pencil, of a man roughly my age, with a thoughtful expression and 
bright, childlike eyes that defied the lines beginning to form around them. The subject 
was not entirely what most people would call handsome, but he had an interesting face 
that welcomed closer study. The page was half torn out, but otherwise intact.
"Where did you get this?" I asked.
Kris shrugged. "Ran across it. I figured, you know, you were into the arts and all, 
so..."
The next page was a quick sketch of a dog, probably no more than ten lines and a 
bit of rough shading. But it looked so alive I expected to see it breathe.
There were other drawings, some simple, some more elaborate, even a study in 
ink that had turned into more of a watercolor thanks to what looked like a coffee spill. All 
were sensitive and real, as if the graphite lines were trembling with life, itching to release 
the form into the world. Even a still life--two pears, a vase, and what looked like a dog 
toy--had personality.
Then the drawings became sketchier, the paper scrubbed raw from erasing. One 
half-completed drawing had a dark scribble of charcoal over it, as if the artist had gotten 
frustrated with the attempt. The next page was a ragged scrap of paper clinging to the 
spiral wire.
The rest of the pages were blank, but I looked at every one, pausing, as if 
something would appear there if I willed it. I felt disappointed, even angry. The person 
had incredible talent; how did this end up in the trash?
I looked for any identification, hoping for at least a name, but there was nothing. 
Then I looked back at the portrait and saw the tiny scribbles in the corners.
"Self-portrait," I read on the left, and on the right, "SJR."
"Not bad, huh?" Kris said when I looked up.
"Not bad? This is incredible. Why would somebody throw this away?"
Kris rummaged in the fridge for a soda. "Jeez, what d'you need diet for? You're 
what, a size five?" He cracked open a can, sipped, and winced.
"You didn't answer my question."
"I'm a raccoon, not a mind reader. Maybe it's the same reason why there are so 
many poems of yours that wind up covered in teabags and takeout cartons."
"Yeah, but... this is different. These are," I fumbled for words and couldn't find 
any, "good."
"One man's trash, I guess. So what's on TV?"
I handed him the remote and sat down on the couch. While Kris flipped from a 
game show to a documentary about elephants to a rap video, I sat with the sketchbook in 
my lap, turning the pages slowly, over and over, consumed by wonder.
***
The doorbell rang on my day off, in the middle of the afternoon. And, like a 
complete idiot, I opened the door, never mind that the guy on the other side wasn't 
anybody I was expecting and could very well have spent the rest of the day raping and 
torturing and killing me.
And then, like even more of an idiot, I stopped and stared at the guy for what felt 
like two days.
Because it was the guy from the sketchbook.
He was wearing a white polo shirt with "Scott" embroidered over a line of 
marching ants. "Hi," he said awkwardly, "um... Mrs. Sheffield? I'm Scott, from 
Pestbusters. Your husband called about the raccoon problem."
My husband?
Scott consulted his clipboard. "Kris?"
"Oh." I thought fast. "That's... my brother, actually. Technically he owns the 
house, so he... takes care of things like that."
Scott nodded. "No problem. Let's take a look and see what we can do."
He advised the usual: tight-fitting lids on the trash cans, bungee cords, closely-
spaced lattice work under the porch to keep them from getting underneath. "I can try 
setting a trap," he finished, "but some of these guys are just way too smart for it."
What was I supposed to say? "Um... okay."
"I've got one in the truck; I'll go get it."
"Wait." He stopped. "It won't... hurt him, will it?"
Scott smiled. "Only his pride. If we can catch him, we'll give him a dose of rabies 
vaccine and take him down to the wooded areas by the park. There's plenty of real food 
to forage for there. Raccoon paradise. I'll be right back."
As soon as he was gone, I grabbed the sketchbook from its place on the coffee 
table and stuffed it under the couch cushions. I was dying to ask him about it, but I 
couldn't think of any way to bring it up without sounding psychic--or possibly psychotic. 
Anyway, it seemed so... so personal, like asking somebody about a prescription bottle 
you saw in their medicine cabinet. 
Scott set up the trap and baited it with a handful of peanuts, then handed me his 
card and said to call if anything showed up. If my fingers tingled a bit when they brushed 
his as I took the card, and if our eyes met a bit longer than was strictly necessary... well, I 
told myself that was just my imagination.
The next morning, the trap was empty, the peanuts untouched. I didn't see Kris 
that night, either.
Scott called me at work the next day. "Nothing yet," I told him.
A pause. "Well, if it's all right, I'd like to stop by and make sure everything's still 
set up. Is around seven okay?"
I could feel my heart pounding. "I thought you guys closed down at five."
"Well, officially, yeah. But my apartment's just two blocks over from your place, 
so it's not really out of my way." He sounded almost embarrassed. I loved that.
"Oh. Well, okay. That'd be fine," I said, hurriedly. "I mean, if it's not too much 
trouble." I was babbling like a teenager.
I hung up and stared at the gray wall of my cubicle, then opened the manilla 
folder on my desk. I tried to look like I was reviewing paperwork, which was difficult, 
seeing as the folder held the self-portrait from the sketchbook. I'd felt a little strange 
bringing something so personal and true into the mundane surroundings of work, but at 
least I'd gotten over my first insane impulse to tack the sketch up where anyone could see 
it. Instead, I was sneaking glances at it like a girl with a pop-star pinup hidden in her 
algebra book.
Stuffing the folder back in my bag, I reminded myself that love at first sight was a 
ridiculous myth based on physical attraction, or concocted after the fact to give the 
relationship some feeling of destiny. I had always said that, and I had always believed it.
And I still did.
I thought.
***
I offered Scott a soda, which he accepted (at Kris' urging, I had stocked up on a 
wider variety of beverages). I made small talk about the weather, as well as the 
cleverness of raccoons in general and our suspect in particular. (If he only knew.) I 
laughed at his genuinely funny jokes and was flattered when he laughed at my 
halfhearted ones.
But I still couldn't find a way to bring up the sketchbook, or anything even close 
to it.
On my way home from work the next night, I bought a sketchpad, an assortment 
of pencils, and a few sticks of charcoal. Then I cleared off my coffee table and arranged 
the supplies so they looked as if they'd been casually scattered there. I tried to do a 
drawing or two to complete the effect, but they ended up so hopeless that I crumpled the 
paper into balls, and, after a moment's thought, left them on the floor. Certainly anyone 
who had thrown away a sketchbook would be able to relate.
And it worked. "You're an artist?" Scott asked lightly when he came by a few 
nights later to check the trap.
I shrugged. "Not really. I thought I'd give it a try, but I think I'd better stick to 
writing poems."
"Poems, huh?" His voice took on that tone of slight awe, the one people who don't 
write get sometimes, as if I were having my verses chiseled into polished marble instead 
of published on obscure websites and in photocopied literary zines that no one's ever 
even heard of unless they've been published in them.
"Yeah," I said finally. "I mean, it's nothing major. What about you? Do you do 
anything... you know, creative?"
He glanced back at the coffee table and ran his hand through his hair. "I used to 
draw," he said slowly. "Painted a little. Mostly watercolors and inks. I... haven't for a 
while."
"Why not?" My mouth was dry.
"Mostly time, I guess."
Liar. People who say they don't have time for art usually mean that it isn't enough 
of a priority for them to make time for. These are the same people who will then spend 
two hours in front of the TV every night, because that isn't as demanding--or terrifying--
as facing a blank page. I know, because I've been one of them.
"And I guess I just got frustrated," he added. "Nothing ever seemed to come out 
right."
Good God. What had he been envisioning, that drawings so good could still fall 
short?
"Do you, um..." I tried to swallow. "Still have any of your stuff?"
A shadow passed over his expression. Regret? "I threw most of it away. But... 
maybe I'll get back into it." He smiled. "If you'll show me some of your poems."
"Uh, sure." He might as well have asked me to take my clothes off. The thought 
of him reading my poems made me feel about as exposed. And yet, there was also that 
odd little flutter of excitement somewhere between my chest and my stomach, and 
already I was mentally rummaging through my files, trying to decide which ones to give 
him.
The trap was still empty, though there were some peanut shells inside, carefully 
arranged in a little pile, the raccoon equivalent of an obscene gesture.
Scott chuckled and shook his head. "I think this guy's worth a limerick or two." 
He cleaned out the shells and added another handful, then stood and turned back to me. 
"So... same time tomorrow?"
***
I spent so much time re-reading and shuffling through my poems that I had to 
print out fresh copies by the time I decided which ones I was least embarrassed by. I 
wondered if he was sketching away furiously at home, trying to draw something worth 
showing me.
The next night, he came in carrying a new sketchbook. He glanced at the trap, 
then sat down next to me on the couch, and I handed him the six poems I'd picked out, 
nothing too long or complicated, nothing too simplistic or silly.
I never know what to do while someone's reading my work. Part of me wants to 
stare at them, so I can pounce on every little nuance of facial expression. And part wants 
to leave the room, or possibly the country, to get away from the suspense.
He was on the last page now. And then it came--the little intake of breath, the 
pause, the slight sigh. When you're at a reading and the audience pauses and sighs that 
way, it's better than the applause. It means they're not just being polite, not even just 
being appreciative. It means they got it.
"These," he said softly, "are really good."
Then he handed me the sketchbook.
The first page was a softly shaded sketch of a robin, his eyes bright and feathers 
glossy. He'd added a pale red-orange wash to its breast. It was, of course, perfect in every 
detail. I felt as if I'd never seen a robin until that moment, as if it were some fantastic 
creature from an ancient bestiary.
Then I turned the page, and I saw my own face looking back at me.
I must have appeared surprised, because he said hurriedly, "Some of the details 
might not be quite right. I usually work from photographs..."
I remembered hearing once that the point of art wasn't to portray what the artist 
saw, but how the artist felt about what he saw. And it was all here: the uncertain but 
thoughtful expression in my eyes, the faint lines here and there that I'd only recently 
begun to notice in the mirror, the hairstyle I'd had for the past eight years.
And through his eyes, it was beautiful. All of it. All of me.
I looked up. I had no idea what to say. He looked at me, and the silence warmed 
between us.
Snap!
A harsh metallic sound from outside. The trap had shut.
When we reluctantly went to look, I recognized Kris. And I could have sworn the 
raccoon winked at me as Scott loaded the cage into the truck.
***
I wrapped the last of the dishes carefully in newspaper and laid them in the box. 
My whole life sat around me, packed in cardboard, taped and labeled.
No, I corrected myself. Not my whole life. My old life. In just a few days--this 
with yet another admiring glance at my engagement ring--a new one would start.
I went out to the back porch, watching the summer's first fireflies winking in the 
grass. The moon was full and golden, and I laughed to myself, remembering the night 
almost a year before, when I'd tried to cast a spell, tried to summon love as if it were 
something I could give orders to. I had never told Scott anything about it. Maybe 
someday.
I almost tripped over the little package.
It was an apple, small and dusky red, wrapped in one of those lined pieces of 
newsprint that kids use in school when they're first learning how to write. The front side 
was some kid's story about his grandparents, with a gold star stuck at the top. On the 
back, I found a note written in wobbly crayon.
Just to prove there's more to apples than those grocery store things. Nice place 
your fellow took me to. Nice little stream with great seafood. And I met someone, too. I 
think being able to count to twenty really did it for her.
Keep a light on for me at the new place. Maybe I'll bring the kids by sometime. 
Braeburn, Jonagold, and Nittany. Cute little furballs.
Kris.
I polished the apple on my nightshirt and took a bite. The tangy sweetness 
sparkled on my tongue, familiar and new at once, and I ate the rest standing in moonlight, 
the June night warm and sweet around me, a poem I was living instead of writing down. 
###
Norma the Wal-Mart Greeter
Meets the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse
They burst through the automatic doors with their horses snorting and stamping, 
and the rush of hot air that came in with them smelled faintly of sulfur.
"I'm sorry, but you'll have to take the horses outside," Norma said, sounding as 
polite as she could. "Service animals only."
They were pretty horses, she thought. So elegant. The white one was so white it 
almost glowed, and the black one was as glossy and sleek as her hair used to be. The red 
horse was kind of disappointing, though, since it was really more of a reddish-brown, and 
Norma preferred bright red, like her favorite Cherry Flambé lipstick.
But that pale horse was just... odd. She had always thought it might be a sort of 
cream color, or a pale gray. Or that pretty palomino color like Trigger. But instead, it was 
pale like the underside of a fish, pale like things that crawled in caves. It was not entirely 
solid-looking, like a ghost, and it shimmered like a scum of oil on a puddle.
She decided she liked the white one best.
They took the horses outside and came back in. It was hard to get a good look at 
them, with their faces kind of shadowed and blurry. She could only tell them apart by 
what they carried: one had a bow, and another a sword, and another an old-fashioned pair 
of scales like they had on the statue of Justice down at the old town courthouse. The last 
one didn't have anything.
She thought maybe she should ask them to leave the weapons outside too, but she 
hated to make them go back out again, and it wasn't like they had guns anyway. They all 
looked pretty tired, and she figured it must have been a long ride.
They didn't stay long. She watched them go through Leeanne's express lane with a 
little countertop digital food scale, some arrows from the sporting goods department, a 
knife sharpener, and a bag of carrots that she figured must be for the horses. Once they 
got in line, they added a pocket pack of Kleenex and some Juicy Fruit gum, and the rider 
from the black horse paid with a card that vanished like smoke after he swiped it.
They stopped at the McDonald's by the entrance on their way out. The one who 
had been riding the pale horse was starting to look fidgety, and he sat down on the bench 
next to the big plastic Ronald McDonald and crossed his arms and waited for the others. 
They got their food to go.
"Have a good day, now," Norma called after them. One of them waved, and she 
smiled and waved back.
She peered out the front windows and watched the rider feed the white horse a 
carrot. The rider patted the horse's neck, then got back on, and they tied the Wal-Mart 
bags to their saddles and rode off across the parking lot. 
Really, Norma thought, they seemed like nice enough boys. She hoped they'd 
have a safe trip wherever they were going, and that they wouldn't run into any bad 
weather. The sky was getting dark out there, and it looked like a storm was coming.
###
Swear Not By the Moon
The wolf watches us from the far corner of the enclosure as the girl fumbles with 
her keys to let me inside. I don't bother to call to him; his hearing isn't as good as it used 
to be, and besides, he won't come near until we're alone.
In the brochure, they called the enclosure an "enriched personal habitat," but it's 
really more of a pen, a section of grass and trees fenced with chain link. They've tried to 
make the grounds look something like a forest, but the effect is too neatly trimmed to be 
convincing. Instead, it looks more like a park--or a zoo.
The only thing that's wild here is him.
In the nearest corner, a three-sided wooden shelter shades two stainless steel 
bowls. One holds fresh water, changed every hour--a touch I appreciate--and the other is 
half-filled with a pile of pink beef scraps. 
I watch two flies buzz around the meat. It doesn't look like he's touched it at all.
I sigh and turn back to the girl, who has already closed the gate behind me. "Has 
he eaten anything today?"
She glances at his chart. "No, sir, not today. They tried giving him venison this 
morning like you asked, but he didn't eat any of it."
"Was it cold?"
Even with the chain link separating us, she blanches under my gaze, and I look 
away briefly to make her more comfortable. I know, then, that she has no faol blood in 
her. "I don't know," she says.
I try to keep my voice gentle. "He won't eat it unless it's warm."
She jerks a nod. "I'll make a note, sir."
I don't doubt that she will. They love notes at this place: charts and paperwork and 
orders typed in all caps. But I wonder if they ever bother to read any of them. One shift 
ends, another one starts, and you might as well have never said anything in the first place.
If it's frustrating for me, I can only imagine what it's like for him. At least I can 
still speak.
"Thank you," I tell her, though I'm not really sure what I'm thanking her for. "I'll 
find you if we need anything else."
She locks the gate and hurries away. I wonder how long she'll keep working here.
I double-check that the gate is closed securely, then sit down on the wooden 
bench under one of the trees. The wolf whines softly as he rises and comes to me. He is 
thinner than the last time I saw him, and his gait is stiff-legged. If he hasn't been eating, 
he likely hasn't gotten many pills down for his arthritis, either. He thrusts his muzzle 
against my hands, and I stroke his silver head lightly, respectfully.
"Hi, Dad," I whisper.
***
I remember the first time I saw him in wolfshape. He told me not to be afraid, but 
still, watching the full-body grimace of the change was terrifying to a ten-year-old. It 
reminded me of the horror movies where you think you're approaching a loved one from 
behind, until they turn around and the music shrieks and you realize you're seeing the 
monster instead.
But at the end of it, he wasn't a monster. He was a strong, healthy gray wolf, lean 
muscle, lush pelt, white teeth. As a man, he had always seemed to me somehow smaller, 
weaker than the other fathers I saw -- although I hated to admit that, even to myself -- but 
as a wolf, he was powerful, he was fierce, and I felt I was seeing his true self for the first 
time. It was disorienting and wonderful.
As a wolf, I turned out to mirror him in miniature, a fact that pleased me 
immensely.
He taught me what it meant to be faol, to carry a wildness within you. The wolf is 
always there in your mind, even in human shape, just as the human side of you still 
lingers in wolfshape. In form, you are one or the other. But in your mind, you are neither, 
and both. And it is so much simpler, and so much more complicated, than that sounds.
There were no large packs near our home, but he took me to the others within our 
range. I saw them bare their throats and bellies to him, saw them lick his muzzle. The 
wolf in me knew what that meant without being told, and the boy in me nearly burst with 
pride.
Two females ran with that group, both with silver coats and sweet voices, but 
while they fawned over my father, he never took any special notice of them that I could 
see. My mother had been gone almost since I could remember, and I asked my father 
once why I couldn't have one of these for a mother.
He smiled. "The wolf wants to make things easy," he said at last, "but the man 
knows it isn't that simple. As a wolf, I could. As a man..." He didn't finish, and, sensing 
something in his silence, I never asked him about it again.
Those were star-filled nights, summer-sweet, and like all children, I never 
imagined they would end.
***
"Dad," I say now, "you have to eat something. I know it's not what you're used 
to..."
He looks up, his golden eyes cloudy. I can't read his expression, can't tell if he's 
pleading with me or simply struggling to focus.
"For me, okay? Just a little. I'll bring some liver next time." For one crazy 
moment I wonder if I could smuggle something alive in here--a calf or a lamb or even a 
rabbit. He needs hot meat, blood meat, but I don't know if he even has the strength left to 
make a kill.
The wolf, in the end, is greedy. Bit by bit, year by year, it grows in the mind. 
Some happily take to the woods for good, as far from humans as they can get. Others 
hold out as long as they can, until they can no longer change back to human form. Born 
as men, faol die as wolves.
He always swore he would know when that time came. Sometimes he talked of 
getting to the national park a few hours' drive away. Sometimes he talked about the gun 
in his nightstand drawer.
That day when I went to his house, when I hadn't heard from him and he wasn't 
answering the phone, I didn't know what I would find. And so when I saw him lying in 
wolfshape in front of the old recliner, the TV still tuned to the baseball game, I was glad. 
Even when his eyes met mine and I could somehow taste the sorrow and defeat that hung 
about him--even then, I was glad.
I glance back at the gate, but there's no sign of the girl or anyone else. I take my 
clothes off, carefully arranging them on the bench so they won't get dirty or wrinkled. 
The change comes swiftly and easily.
I tuck my tail, lower my ears, whine, and lick his muzzle. His eyes brighten, and 
his tail lifts a little higher.
I long to run, to play the way we used to. But I don't know if he can keep up, and I 
won't make him feel weak if he can't. In the end, we settle in a patch of shade, with tiny 
ants tickling our paw-pads. I breathe in his scent, and it makes me feel little again, safe 
again. He dozes, and I wonder what he dreams about. If he remembers me, is it as a wolf-
pup, or his son?
My human mind whispers that I can't stay much longer. I lick his ear gently to 
wake him up, and as he stretches stiffly and yawns, I get an idea. Tail high, ears up, I trot 
to his dish. Just as I lower my head to the meat, he growls, and I look up to see him 
standing with his lips pulled back from yellowed teeth. Instinct has won out over 
stubbornness.
I back off, allowing him his place. He eats most of the meat, then steps aside, and 
I finish. The taste of it makes me shudder--I'm used to meat either cooked or fresh, not 
raw and sun-stale--but I force myself to swallow. Afterward, we wash the juices from 
each other's faces, just as we used to wash the blood away after a kill.
He whines as I walk back to the bench. I want to stay with him; I want to leave.
The change back to human form is a bit like pushing a wheeled cart over a 
threshold--a little more force, more of a jolt than the slip into wolfshape. Right now it is 
still as effortless as breathing, but I know it will gradually get more difficult. And then, 
one day...
I try not to think about it.
He lies down and rests his chin on his paws, watching as I get dressed. Does he 
still remember how it felt to tuck in a shirt, pull up a zipper, buckle a belt? Or has the 
wolf-mind carried those memories away, buried them in the scent of dead leaves and the 
dreams of moon-dappled deer? I don't even know how many words he still understands, 
but I speak anyway, if only for myself. I speak the words that I couldn't say out loud to 
the man, the ones I can say only now, to the wolf.
"I love you." I lift the keypad cover on the gate and enter the code to unlock it. 
"I'll be back soon."
As I close the gate behind me, the low, throbbing howl begins. A moment later, 
the others join in, the song echoing through the enclosures, and even in human form I can 
still pick out his voice among the chorus, rising above the others, dying away into a 
moan, then rising again.
I get to the car, but even with the doors and windows shut, I can still hear them. I 
put my hands over my ears like a child, rest my forehead against the steering wheel, and 
weep.
***
Night falls clear and cool, and I run alongside a white-furred female, our paws 
skimming the ground. Last night, the two of us shared linguini and red wine; tonight, if 
the wind is with us, we will feed from an aging doe.
Running is a joy, a song in my blood. I am a pup no longer; I am as fine and 
strong now as my father was when I first saw him in wolfshape. I am drunk on the night 
and the run and the she-wolf's scent in my lungs.
And yet.
As I leap to bring the doe to the ground, as I join the tussle of teeth tearing at the 
hide, as the first hot sweetness of blood tingles in my nostrils, I pray that one day the 
deer's hard, sharp hoof will find me, a single well-placed blow to blaze my life to its 
close. Before my eyes dim and my hearing dulls, before the chain-link fence and the 
stainless steel dish. Before I hold a pistol, or a noose, or the keys to my car, and try to 
decide. Before it's too late to decide at all. The wolf I am hopes it will be that easy.
But the man knows it isn't that simple.
###
Drawn From Memory
It had once been a summer cottage, a weekend getaway, a place couples might 
come for a tryst or fathers might bring their boys fishing. It was salt-washed gray now, 
the wooden stairs uneven, paint blistered around the dull windows. Beyond the house, the 
sound stretched calm, reflecting the late afternoon light. The driveway was paved with 
broken clamshells, so I was glad I'd worn flats.
It was hard to believe he was here. It seemed so far away from everything, and I 
wasn't sure whether to envy him the peace and quiet or wish that somehow he were still 
out in the middle of everything, out performing where he belonged.
Everyone in my generation had grown up being able to sing the Jungle Jam theme 
song. We laughed as Terrence Tiger foiled both the poachers and his nemesis, the evil but 
ultimately inept elephant Lord Longtusk. The show had a couple of bumbling monkeys, a 
few humanoid toons as the rangers of the wildlife preserve, and a handful of other 
secondary characters, but Terrence was the star. And the show wasn't just funny, it was 
smart. It had fans from elementary school to graduate school thanks to its skewering of 
pop culture, celebrities, political figures, you name it--but still with plenty of sight gags 
and cartoon comedy to go around. When I watched the series on DVD years later, I was 
amazed--and delighted--at how much had gone over my head as a child.
I had considered wearing my Terrence T-shirt for the interview, but that seemed a 
little too desperate-fangirl. Instead, I'd gone for professional but approachable: khaki 
slacks, pastel blouse, small gold hoop earrings.
There was no doorbell, so I knocked gingerly. The door opened a crack, and a 
bright black pupil peered out from a field of white. "Yes?"
It was his voice, no doubt of that, but it was quieter and rougher, as if he'd just 
woken up.
"Terrence?" I hoped I didn't seem too forward calling him by his first name, but 
somehow 'Mr. Tiger' just sounded silly. "I'm Lauren Mitchell, from ForeverToons.com? 
We'd scheduled an interview for today."
"Oh. Of course." He opened the door.
He looked... faded. Not merely his colors, though I would have sworn that his 
orange fur had been brighter. He just seemed smaller, lesser.
That's what the camera does, I told myself.
He did seem tired, though, and a pang of fear went through me. But--maybe I 
really had woken him up. Toons ate and slept like everyone else, after all.
"Please, come in."
It looked as if he'd kept the furniture from the house's rental days: wicker, glass, 
well worn honey-colored wood, simple and ordinary. The only signs of his acting life 
were several framed photographs and an old bookcase of awards. I recognized the 
Emmys, but none of the others. A thin layer of dust shrouded all of them.
He saw me looking around and gave me a wry smile. "Not what you expected?"
"I--I don't know what I was expecting."
"Can I get you anything to drink? Water, soda, iced tea?"
"No, thanks."
He led me into the living room, ushering me onto a faded blue couch while he sat 
in a white wicker chair opposite. I noticed there was a small stereo in the room but no 
TV.
I powered up my tablet, opened a new file, and turned on the recorder. When I 
asked if I had his permission to record our interview, a flicker of unease passed across his 
face, but he agreed.
I settled back on the couch. "You have a lovely place here. It's so quiet."
He laughed dryly. "Listen... Lauren, was it?" I nodded. "I appreciate the white lie, 
but let's agree to tell each other the truth today, all right? I..." That shadow across his 
features again. "I expect this will be the last time I'm interviewed by anyone, so I'd rather 
not waste it being anything but ourselves."
"All right." I glanced at my notes, then decided I'd be better off winging it and 
turned the display off. "I'm curious as to why you chose this place, then."
"I didn't. It chose me."
"How so?"
He turned his gaze to the sliding glass door to our right, looking out at the water. 
"We're all drawn somewhere near the end. A lot of us to the water for some reason. 
Oceans, lakes, islands--nobody knows why. So I came here. It was cheap enough, and 
people let me be."
"You want to be left alone?"
Another wry smile, but at least this time he looked more like the Terrence I 
remembered. "Not really. But if it's going to happen, I'd rather it happen quietly."
I knew what the "it" was that we were politely dancing around. Toons aren't 
born--at least, not in the human fashion. They call it "winking in," and it happens all at 
once, when they appear more or less fully formed, although their appearance and 
personality can still be molded to some extent by the role they play--for instance, I don't 
know if Terrence had that stripe across his throat that's shaped like a bow tie when he 
first winked in. But for all intents and purposes, toons have no childhood. 
The flip side of this is what happens to toons when they wink out. They disappear, 
but no one's quite sure exactly what decides the time. The best theory at the moment has 
to do with not how popular or loved they are, but how relevant they are--that is, loved at 
the moment, not out of pure nostalgia.
As far as I knew, Jungle Jam hadn't been shown on TV in years. Boxer shorts and 
T-shirts with Terrence's image were still sold, and collectibles went for respectable 
amounts on the auction sites, but there was no mistaking it for anything but 
thirtysomethings like me getting suddenly nostalgic for their childhoods.
Well, he wanted honesty, so I went for it. "How long do you think you have?"
He didn't flinch. "I don't know." I was surprised at how matter-of-fact he was 
being, but I supposed he'd had time to resign himself to fate.
"I think it'll be soon," he added after a moment. "It's just a feeling, but..." He 
shrugged.
"What about the others from the show? Do you ever see them?"
"They've all been gone for years. Longtusk held out the longest. But I was the 
star, and the stars are always the last ones left."
This was getting depressing--even though it felt selfish to think that. Where was 
the wisecracking character I remembered, or even a glimmer of him? I hated myself for 
it, but I was starting to feel almost cheated.
He studied me for a moment. "Did you watch the show? Or--no, it was probably 
before your time--"
"Now who's telling white lies?"
He smiled. "It's just--you don't look that old."
"Old enough. Of course I watched it. All the time. I loved you." I felt myself 
blushing, not only at what I'd said, but at saying it in the past tense. "Jungle Jam was my 
favorite show. I watched a couple of episodes last week and felt like I was eight years old 
again. It was great. I'd forgotten how good it was."
"We had good writers."
"And good actors," I pressed. "I wouldn't have thought I'd ever see you this 
modest."
A familiar impish spark came into his eyes. "Better be careful. I haven't had this 
much praise in so long, I can get drunk on a thimbleful."
"Maybe that's what I want."
"More interesting reading, you mean?"
"For the five people who read the blog, sure."
"I can see the headline now--'Famous Cartoon Star Tells Lurid Tiger Tales.'"
"I'm listening."
"Hm. Well, Mort and Morey Monkey weren't really twins."
"Do tell."
"I know, it's scandalous." He paused. "Are you sure I can't get you something to 
drink? I've got a nice Riesling, if you like wine."
"I'm driving, but one glass wouldn't hurt."
While he slipped into the kitchen, I went back to take a closer look at the 
photographs. One was a shot of the entire cast with everyone grinning at the camera--
except the villains, who were scowling appropriately. It was hard to believe the rest of 
them were all gone.
The other pictures were of Terrence with a variety of cartoon stars; it looked like 
they'd been taken at parties. I lingered in front of one that showed Terrence with Bugs 
Bunny, both of them wearing leis, coconut bras, and grass skirts, each toasting the camera 
with a mai tai.
"He's starting to fade, you know." Terrence spoke quietly behind me. "He doesn't 
go out much anymore so no one will see. If they don't find something good enough for 
him soon... I've heard rumors he's looking for a place in Pismo Beach. I hope they're 
wrong." He held the wine glass out to me, and I took it and sipped, not knowing what to 
say.
I'd had so many questions ready to ask--what his favorite episode was, what his 
relationship with Longtusk was really like, what he thought of the cartoons on TV today. 
But now that I was here with him, those all seemed petty, just trivia to dole out for the 
fans. All at once, I realized that what I really wanted was to know him as a person instead 
of the icon I'd watched every day after school. I didn't know if that was even possible. I 
wanted to help him, to bring him back somehow--but that felt even more farfetched. 
Instead, I went back to the couch, and we sipped our wine, and he talked. He told 
me stories from the show, the practical jokes that went on behind the scenes. He did 
impressions of the other characters that left me howling with laughter.
A soft beep came from my tablet. Low battery. I'd forgotten about the recording. I 
couldn't believe the time when I checked it: I'd been there five hours. It had felt like two 
at most. As Terrence took our wine glasses into the kitchen, I realized sheepishly that it 
really hadn't been much of an interview. It had been fun, but I had no idea how I was 
going to get something out of it for the blog.
"I should get going," I said when he returned. "But... I was wondering if I could 
come back tomorrow. Just... to kind of follow up."
His smile then was the most genuine I'd seen from him all night. "I'd like that."
I wanted to hug him, but that felt too awkward--as did the thought of just leaving. 
Finally I held out my hand. He clasped it gently in both of his, and I saw something in his 
expression that I couldn't quite place. It wasn't until I was halfway to the motel, my hand 
still tingling with the warmth of his touch, that I realized it was gratitude.
***
I glanced over my notes again the next morning while I ate breakfast at a local 
diner. The tablet's voice recognition software was a joke, so most of the transcription was 
garbled, but it was enough to refresh my memory. I sipped my coffee (bitter), nibbled a 
slice of toast (burned), and finally ditched the runny eggs in favor of a piece of apple pie 
that was just coming out of the oven. Not exactly the complete breakfast they talked 
about in the cereal commercials, but close enough.
I guess this is how you know you're an adult--when no one can tell you that you 
can't have dessert for breakfast. I felt oddly giddy and reckless, and though I tried to 
chalk it up to being nervous about seeing Terrence again, I finally had to admit that it 
wasn't anxiety. It was excitement. I hadn't looked forward to seeing someone this much 
since I'd been in--
No. No way was I going there. This was hero worship for a guy I felt like I knew. 
Emphasis, I told myself sternly, on felt like. For all I knew, most of that personality I 
loved so well truly was the product of the writers--or merely the persona of the actor.
You are not going to be an idiot fangirl.
I held tight to that mantra, paid the check, and headed down the road.
***
Terrence looked brighter this morning--and not just his color. "Coffee?"
"God, yes. Does the health department know that diner in town is serving battery 
acid?"
He chuckled. "Ah, the Silver Strand; serving cheap food at cheaper prices for over 
twenty years. But nobody beats their desserts."
I took the thick pottery mug and held it with both hands, savoring the aroma. 
"That's more like it."
I took my seat on the couch again. For one wild moment I hoped he might sit 
beside me, but instead he took the same chair as before. "So," he said, "where were we?"
I quickly powered up the tablet and turned the recorder on. "We were talking 
about the second season, and how they experimented with the format."
"Mm." He nodded. "Well, some of those shows worked, and some didn't." He 
flashed a quirky grin.
I smiled, too. "'Broomsticks and Butterflies'?"
"By popular agreement--fans and crew--our single worst episode." He looked 
heavenward and shook his head. "It was all I could do to get through the dialogue. If the 
whole season had been done that way, we would have been canceled for sure."
"Okay, so I know your least favorite. Which one was your favorite?"
He glanced at his coffee, then back up to me. "'Purr-fect Harmony.'"
"The one with... oh, no wonder." I grinned. That was the episode where the 
poachers had used a girl tiger from a zoo to lure Terrence out of the preserve.
Terrence's orange cheeks went redder. "Hey, it was a fun show. I liked getting 
tricked for once and being out of my element for a little while."
That was the only episode she'd been in. "Did you ever see her again, after the 
show?"
He studied the coffee mug again. "We went out a few times, but it didn't work out. 
Too complicated."
"Why?" The question was out before I realized I'd said it. "Never mind--you don't 
have to--"
"It's all right. It's just that... toon relationships are always complicated." He 
gestured to the framed photos. "Bugs tried it a couple of times. But they just weren't as 
big as he was, and they didn't last. We just... never know how long the other person will 
be around."
"Neither do humans," I pointed out gently.
"True. But that shadow's just a bit sharper for us." He switched to a lighter tone. 
"Besides, Tina looked just like me except for eyelashes and a blue bow over one ear. Not 
exactly the most attractive of women, when you get right down to it."
There was more there than he was saying, but going any further would have really 
been prying. Any other time, I would have pushed to get something good for the blog, but 
this time... I just couldn't. It was more than wanting to respect his privacy. There was pain 
beneath his words, and I didn't want him to be hurt. 
I moved on to another set of questions about what it was like to win the awards, 
and which ones meant the most to him.
He shrugged. "None of them, really. Oh, it was great at the time, but now look at 
them. Gathering dust, and here I am, and none of them doing any good when it matters." 
A bitter note crept into his voice at the end, and I saw a flash of something like anger in 
his eyes. He paused and took a breath. "I shouldn't complain, though. I've done better 
than most."
Once again, I wished he were sitting beside me. I wanted to take his hand in mine, 
to tell him how much joy he'd given me over the years, how much happiness he deserved 
in return. Instead, the moment passed in awkward silence, and I made a big show of 
checking the tablet's battery display.
"So what was your favorite episode?" Terrence asked.
"Oh, man, I don't know. Can I give you a top five? Um... maybe the one where 
you lost your memory and thought you were British royalty."
He held up his coffee mug with pinky extended. "Quite right. Excellent choice."
"I took my stuffed animal and made a monocle for it."
He laughed. "Really? Do you still have it?"
"I wish I did. It got so ratty my mom finally threw it out one day when I was at 
school."
"Ouch."
"Yeah, I'm still working through that in therapy." My coffee had gone cold, but I 
sipped at it anyway. "I used to have all the playsets. The treehouse, the secret lair, the hot 
air balloon--everything. I wish I still had them, but..."
A moment passed. "But what?" he asked softly.
I tried to figure out how to explain it. "It's not just wishing I had the toys again. If 
I had them now, they'd all just be sitting on a shelf. And okay, yeah, I'd look at them and 
remember, and that'd be nice.” I paused. “But what I really wish is that I could play with 
them like I used to. Just... sit there for hours and make up stories and move them around. 
Just get lost in it. And that's what I can't do anymore. That's what I can't get back."
I laughed nervously. "I guess that doesn't make much sense if you've never been 
little, but--"
"Actually," he said slowly, "it does."
His gaze met mine, and I believed him. All at once I felt something I hadn't felt in 
a long time: the sensation of being understood, of utter comfort paired with complete 
freedom. It was only a moment, but there was no mistaking it.
I fumbled for the tablet and had to tap the screen twice to shut off the recorder. 
"I've taken enough of your time. I'd better get going."
"Are you sure? You're welcome to stay if--"
"No, really. It's all right. I'll send you the link when the article gets posted. 
Sometime next week. Probably." I powered down the tablet and shoved it clumsily into 
my bag. My face burned. I'd promised myself I wouldn't be a fangirl, and what was I 
doing now? Imagining some silly chemistry, some connection I only wished were there.
I picked up my coffee mug with the idea of carrying it to the kitchen, but he 
reached for it instead, his hands closing over mine, and there it was again: warmth, 
safety, and an ember of something I hadn't felt in a long time. Or, if I was being honest, 
something I had never felt.
I tried to remember what I'd planned to say. "It's... it's really been an honor. To 
talk with you. It's been like a dream, so... thank you."
His voice had a quiet tone I hadn't heard before. "It's been... more than I hoped 
for." He set the mug gently back on the table, and when he turned back to me, the 
Terrence I remembered was suddenly there, with his signature blend of mischief and 
charm. "Let me thank you, then. How about dinner tonight? My treat."
"Well, I--"
"I promise we won't go to the Silver Strand."
I told myself to be polite. Quick. Simple. A brief apology, an explanation that I 
had to be back at work the next day, that I really hadn't planned on being in town another 
night, and--
"Sure," I said. "That'd be... that'd be great."
His eyes lit up. "Wonderful. Just meet me here. Seven o'clock?"
I nodded. "Seven. I'll see you then." I reminded myself to breathe, picked up my 
bag, crunched my way across the shell driveway, and managed to get into the car before I 
started grinning like an idiot. 
He was just lonely, I told myself as I drove back to the motel. That was all. It 
didn't really mean anything. He wanted someone to talk to, and I could do that. I 
understood that.
Because you're lonely, too.
I told myself to shut up.
***
I spent a couple of hours staring at a blank screen, trying to come up with 
something for the blog. Every fifteen minutes or so, I would scribble an opening line with 
the stylus, watch my handwriting fade into text, stare at it for several minutes, and then 
scrub the stylus over it to erase the whole thing.
Finally, feeling suffocated by the tired little room, I went out for a walk. The 
tourist season had come and gone, and most of the quaint shops nearby were already 
closed, with signs in the windows saying things like "See you next Memorial Day!" The 
emptiness didn't improve my mood, but at least I wasn't forced to make small talk with 
anyone.
It wasn't fair. That was the stupid, childish thought that kept playing over and 
over in my mind. It just wasn't fair. At first, I thought I meant it wasn't fair for Terrence, 
for his very existence to be linked to what other people thought or felt about him. I could 
be completely alone in the world, no family, no friends, no one to even know I existed, 
let alone care--and still I would exist.
The farther I walked, though, the more I realized the truth. It wasn't just unfair to 
him. I was also feeling sorry for myself. After all the years of dating and breaking up, I'd 
finally met someone wonderful, someone I really cared about, and odds were he wouldn't 
last out the month.
I checked my watch and headed back toward the motel. The sun was starting to 
set over the water, sinking slowly into a pool of orange and red. The sight stopped me, 
held me there. I stood for several minutes just watching it, taking it in.
Appreciating a sunset couldn't keep it from fading. But I couldn't turn away from 
something beautiful just because it wouldn't last.
At the motel, I unpacked the one dress I'd brought--one of those "just in case, 
what the hell, it doesn't take up that much room anyway" items. Thankfully, the fabric 
hadn't wrinkled, so I didn't have to risk the rust-edged iron that was pushed to the back of 
the closet shelf. The dress was sleeveless, sheer and summery, though the deep crimson 
color was pure autumn. I hoped the evening wouldn't get too cold, since the only jacket 
I'd brought was too casual to match.
When he opened his door and saw me, there was a delightful heart-skipping 
instant as he took in the sight. Did I look that way when I saw him?
"I feel so... underdressed." He thought a moment, then hooked an invisible zipper 
beneath his chin, unzipped his striped pelt, and stepped out of it wearing a tux.
"Oh, thanks. Now I'm underdressed."
He took my hand. "No, you're beautiful. Ready to go?"
I offered to drive, but he said it wasn't far. We walked along the water, sometimes 
on boardwalks and along docks, sometimes on a winding trail through sandy grass. 
Finally we came to a structure that looked like it had once been another vacation cottage, 
but now it could only be called a shack. It leaned to one side, the lit windows looking 
more diamond-shaped than square.
Terrence chuckled when he saw my expression. "Don't worry, it's safe. And a lot 
nicer on the inside, trust me."
He held the door open for me. Inside, it was still plain and a little run down, but at 
least the walls were straight.
A portly toon alligator in a white apron greeted us. "Evening, Terrence."
"Hey, Al. That table ready?"
"Ready and waiting. Special'll be out in a few."
It wasn't a big dining room, just a half-dozen round tables with plain white 
tablecloths. But in the back corner, one table was set with bone china and silver, and a 
bottle of chilled white wine stood beside crystal goblets. Candles shone in silver 
candlesticks, and a single red rose in a crystal bud vase completed the picture.
From somewhere unseen, Al dimmed the lights as we sat down. Everything 
caught the candlelight, reflecting it back in a thousand chasing glimmers. 
Terrence smiled. "Al's angling for a big tip tonight."
"Is it always this... private?"
"You mean empty? We're being honest, remember." He glanced around the room. 
"In season, you can wait two hours for a table on a Friday night. This time of year, it's 
pretty quiet."
"The way you like it?"
He spread the linen napkin in his lap. "The way it suits me."
Al brought out shrimp cocktail for us to share. "I hope seafood's all right," 
Terrence said.
"Fantastic." I reached for the shrimp. "But what are you going to eat?"
The special turned out to be linguini and broiled scallops in a white wine sauce. 
"He's outdone himself," Terrence remarked, pouring another glass of wine. "For all I 
knew, we were going to wind up eating fish and chips off china plates."
The silences were comfortable. I realized neither of us needed, anymore, to fill 
every space with chatter. I was warm from more than just the wine. Before this evening, 
all I'd have been able to think about was how I was out on a date that hordes of fangirls--
and boys--would have killed for. But now, when I looked at him, he wasn't the Terrence 
Tiger, star of Jungle Jam. He was just Terrence, himself. It was hard to separate out 
which one I was falling in love with--but the truth was, I loved them both.
Dessert was raspberry cheesecake drizzled with chocolate.
"Okay, no way Al made this," Terrence said.
Al came out of the kitchen, wiping his hands on a dishtowel. "You doubt my wide 
range of talents?"
"Many things about you are wide, Al. Talents, not so much." Terrence took 
another bite of the cheesecake. "Besides, I know the Silver Strand's hot fudge when I 
taste it."
"Busted." Al laughed. "Anything else for you?"
"Just the check."
"Eh, it's on the house." Al winked at me.
Terrence smiled. "I owe you one."
"I'll add it to your tab." He headed back to the kitchen. "Have a good night, kids."
It was dark when we left, but Terrence whipped out a lantern to light our way 
back to his house. He also slipped off his jacket and put it around my shoulders. It was 
warm and smelled faintly of spice and musk.
I smiled at him. "We're just a romantic cliché, aren't we?"
"Maybe. But things only get to be clichés because they work."
At the house, he made coffee. We sat on the couch, set our cups on the table, and 
ignored them.
On the show, Terrence had been suave and cool and had always found the right 
thing to say. Now he looked almost nervous, and I loved that. "Remember... we're still 
being honest," he said.
"Of course."
"I know this is all--kind of sudden. It's just that..." He paused. "I came here not 
knowing how much time I had left. And I realize now that ever since I've been here, I've 
just been... waiting for it to happen. That's all. Not living, just waiting."
"But you're not gone yet."
"No. And I'm glad of that now."
"So am I."
He leaned closer. The kiss seemed to happen on its own, inevitable and perfect, 
deepening slowly, pulling us against each other. 
Several long moments later, we broke apart, and I glanced down, then back into 
his eyes. "So where were you hiding that all this time?"
He gave me a playful smile. "Trade secret." And we kissed again.
***
When I woke, sunlight was filtering through the gauzy bedroom curtains. The bed 
was empty beside me, and for an instant I feared the worst, until I heard him in the 
kitchen.
I called my boss and told her I had a family emergency and would have to be out 
for the rest of the week. I figured it was close enough to the truth, and she would never 
have believed the truth anyway. I hardly believed it myself.
Each day blended into the next. We played miniature golf at the boardwalk, with 
Terrence taking on a new celebrity persona at each hole. He'd sweet-talked the owner, a 
toon poodle whose pink fur was going gray, into opening up just for us.
I was surprised by how many toons lived and worked close by. Terrence just 
shrugged when I mentioned it. "I told you; we're all drawn to water eventually."
A purple hippo in a zoot suit ran the single-screen theater downtown. He basically 
gave Terrence the key to the place, and we sat in the cool darkness for hours, watching 
Jungle Jam, Tom and Jerry, Top Cat, Bugs Bunny, Daffy Duck. Most of the time we 
watched the screen. Sometimes we didn't.
Dinner was always at Al's. (I had learned that his middle initial was, as I'd 
suspected, "E.") Once, when Al and I were briefly alone, the gator said suddenly, "Thank 
you."
"For what?"
"For what you're doing for him. He's a good guy. Always has been. It's good to 
see him happy again. He deserves that." And he took my empty plate and waddled back 
to the kitchen.
After dinner one night, back at the house, Terrence presented me with a big red 
box tied with a white bow.
"What's the occasion?"
He shrugged and smiled. "Just something I thought you'd like."
"This... doesn't explode or anything, does it?"
"Hey, I already learned the hard way not to let Jokey Smurf do my gift-
wrapping."
I lifted the lid off gingerly, and there, on a bed of tissue paper, was a new plush 
Terrence, the tags still on it, the same kind I'd had when I was little.
"It's perfect--where did you get this?"
"I've had some stuff in storage." He smiled. "Talk about needing therapy. I'm the 
one giving out stuffed animals of myself."
I hugged the toy. "He's adorable." Then I kissed Terrence, slipping my arms 
around him. "I like the real thing even better, though," I whispered, and drew him down 
to me.
All these days, I had been trying not to see it. I had hoped that somehow one 
person's love could take the place of a thousand fans' admiration. But the next morning, 
as he stood by the window looking out, I saw the morning sunlight slant through him, and 
I saw how his orange fur had faded to peach.
No.
Terrence glanced at me, and I was afraid I'd spoken the word aloud. Then he 
smiled, and I managed to smile back. I tried to hold on to that smile for the rest of the 
day.
Later that evening, we sat on the small deck out back overlooking the water, 
watching the terns dive into the smooth, sunset-gold surface, watching the ripples wash 
all the way to the shore.
"It's going to happen soon," he said.
I swallowed. "How do you know?"
"I know." His voice was strained. "Thank Al for me, will you? I never wanted to 
embarrass him, but he's been a good friend, and I want him to know that. I want him to 
know I appreciated it." He was silent for several moments, staring out at the water. "One 
more thing."
"Anything," I said, and meant it.
He turned back to me, his eyes shining. "Remember me."
I held him as if I could keep him with me by sheer determination. I forced my 
voice past tears, my jaw clenched against the sob that wanted to rise from my chest. 
"Always."
He lowered his face to mine, and I closed my eyes. In the kiss, I felt him 
dissolving, like sand slipping through my fingers. His warmth lingered on my lips, but 
when I opened my eyes, he was gone.
***
I never did write that blog post. I couldn't. Sometimes things are cliché because 
they work, and sometimes words are too small, too weak, to carry what needs to be said.
The plush version of Terrence sits on a shelf in my library, next to the DVDs of 
the show. Someday I'll watch them again. I'll smile at the jokes I know by heart, and hold 
the stuffed animal close, and feel as safe as I did when I was a child, as loved as I felt 
when he held me in that cottage by the sea. For now, the toy sits there, and I look at it, 
and I remember. 
The child I was carried Terrence with her wherever she went. The woman I am 
now carries him with her still.
###
The Garden
"What're you doing?"
"Making a garden."
"You're gonna get in trouble, digging up the yard."
"Mom said I could."
"What're you planting, anyway?"
"Seeds."
"Stupid. That's just birdseed."
"Go away! You're messing it up."
She carries the heavy watering can with both hands, careful not to spill. She gives 
them a drink and whispers nice things to them, telling them how warm the sun is, how 
blue the sky is, how everything is waiting for them to grow. Every morning, she runs 
outside first thing, bare feet and pajamas in dew-slick grass. Every morning, the same 
stark patch of earth.
"Watering your dirt again?"
"It's not dirt."
"I told you it wasn't gonna grow."
"They will too. Just wait. Any day now."
"Right."
So many days pass. Excitement gives way to stubborn habit. She bites her lip and 
fills the watering can again.
"You can play my new game if you want."
"Don't want your game."
"Come on. It's boring out here. The seeds were probably old anyway. Hey--let's 
dig it up and see what it looks like. Maybe there's worms."
"No!"
"Cut it out! I was just kidding. Jeez."
The next morning, she does not run. She closes the screen door quietly behind 
her, slowly, putting it off a few moments longer, letting hope whisper maybe, maybe.
The soil stirs and shudders. She watches, chewing on one knuckle, eyes wide.
A flash of red--a scattering of dirt--a flap of new wings. The cardinal cocks its 
head, looks around a moment, and flies up to perch on the watering can.
Another, and another, and a dozen, and more: blue jays, sparrows, purple martins, 
goldfinches, bursting out in soft puffs of earth. A row of indigo buntings turns the 
clothesline into a sapphire necklace. The air bubbles with birdsong, each note clear as 
water, silver-bright.
She laughs and claps her hands, and at once they take flight, not startled but as if 
waiting for her command. For a moment, she stands within a swirling rainbow before 
they all break away toward the sky, leaving her staring into a blue so pure it makes her 
eyes ache, so wide it makes her feel tiny and huge at once. Her heart has broken into a 
hundred feathered pieces, but each one soars now, higher than she can see.
###
About the Author:
Renee Carter Hall writes fantasy and soft science fiction, with excursions into dark 
fantasy, literary pieces, and stories for children and young adults. Talking animals slip 
into her stories whenever they get an opportunity, and her work has been influenced by 
storytellers from a range of media, including Beatrix Potter, Steven Spielberg, Ray 
Bradbury, Jim Henson, Chuck Jones, Brian Jacques, Gene Roddenberry, and Stephen 
King. Her short stories have appeared in various publications, including Marion Zimmer 
Bradley's Fantasy Magazine, The Summerset Review, Allasso, the Anthro Dreams 
podcast, and the anthology Bewere the Night. Her first novel, By Sword and Star, was 
published in 2012 by Anthropomorphic Dreams Publishing. 
Renee lives in West Virginia with her husband Jeff and their cat Bijoux, where she works 
by day as a medical transcriptionist, a career that allows her to put her perfectionism to 
good use. She welcomes correspondence from readers and can be found online at:
http://www.reneecarterhall.com
http://twitter.com/RCarterHall
http://www.smashwords.com/profile/view/RCarterHall
reneecarterhall@gmail.com
###
Also available from this author at Smashwords: 
"Real Dragons Don't Wear Sweaters"
All Dinkums wants is to be a real dragon, a fierce crimson-scaled firebreather like the 
ones living in the northern caves. Instead, Dinkums is pink, fuzzy, and cute--until Skye, a 
teen witch bored by school and ready for a challenge, finds a way to transform him. But 
Dinkums and Skye are both about to learn that being real is more complicated than they 
bargained for. 
http://www.smashwords.com/books/view/63869 <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Chapter 1
It had been almost a year since Splinter had joined Kevin’s family. His parents accepted her 
as one of their own and they liked how Splinter and Kevin looked after each other. Emalyn’s 
family took in Striker and since they only lived one neighborhood over from Kevin, the dragons 
and the kids spent a lot of time playing with each other.
Once school let out, Kevin rushed home, and like most days, Splinter was at the door 
waiting for him.
“Hi Splinter,” Kevin said as she flew up into his arms and started nuzzling him with her 
head. “Okay, that’s enough,” he laughed.
“I missed you,” Splinter replied with a smile.
“I know, I missed you too,” Kevin replied. “Did my mom feed you yet?” he asked as he set 
his backpack down on the floor by the door and then walked over to the kitchen.
“Nope,” Splinter said as she tilted her head sideways and blinked her eyes innocently.
“Are you sure?” Kevin questioned.
“It was more like a snack than a meal,” Splinter admitted. Then she turned her head all the 
way upside down, and pointed at her mouth.
“Alright goofball, I’ll get you a little more to eat,” he chuckled.
A moment later Kevin’s mom walked into the kitchen and paused for a moment, “Hey, I 
already fed her!” she scolded. Splinter folded her ears down and then gulped down the last bits of 
meat that were in her food bowl.
“She was still hungry,” Kevin replied on her behalf.
“You know, I liked it better when I thought dragons were mythical creatures instead of little 
eating and pooping machines living in my house,” Josie exclaimed.
“She’s potty trained,” Kevin replied in her defense.
“I know…” Josie sighed. She really like Splinter, but it was fun to tease Kevin and it made 
him appreciate what he had.
A few minutes later, Kevin’s dad came walking in and grabbed a beer from the refrigerator. 
Splinter immediately flew over next to him and then landed on the counter.
“Can I have some?” she asked. Brian instinctively opened up the cabinet and pulled out a 
small cup for her.
“Dad, if I can’t have alcohol, then neither can she!” Kevin insisted.
“You’re not 21, but your dragon is,” he replied while pouring a little of his beer into the cup 
for her.
“That’s not fair, she’s only 21 in dragon years, but we don’t know if those are the same as 
ours. We multiply a dog’s age by five,” Kevin remarked.
“It’s one-to-one,” Splinter said before lapping up the foamy liquid with her tongue.
“See, she’s old enough to drink,” Brian declared.
“Maybe, but now she’ll have beer breath and dragon gas,” Kevin said as he held his nose for 
emphasis. Splinter gave him a dirty look and then flew upstairs after she licked the cup dry.
“I think you insulted her,” his dad remarked.
“If I did, then she’s probably up on my bed planning some way to get back at me, if she 
hasn’t already,” Kevin sighed.
“So, now that you’re out of school, I was thinking we should hookup the tent trailer and 
head over to Wellington Lake this weekend. What do you think?”
“Can we go somewhere new?” Kevin asked.
“I thought you loved that place?” Brian replied.
“I do, but after what happened to Splinter and her brother, I would rather go somewhere 
new,” Kevin admitted.
“Okay,” his dad replied. Then he set down his drink so he could search the internet for 
another campground on his smart phone. While he was fiddling around with that, Splinter came 
back downstairs and slowly tip-toed over to Brian’s unguarded bottle of beer. When Kevin 
noticed what she was doing, he chuckled under his breath, but didn’t say anything. “There’s a 
famous gemstone collecting area down near Buena Vista called Mount Antero. Would you like 
to go there and try your luck prospecting for gems?” Brian suggested.
“That sounds cool… what’s the camp ground like?” Kevin replied, trying not to laugh as 
Splinter finished off the last of his dad’s beer.
“Well, it looks like the campground is near the base of the mountain at about 8,600 feet. 
From there you take a 4x4 road up to the top of Mount Antero. The gemstone collecting area 
appears to be on the southwest side of the peak. I think we should bring the ATV, because the 
map shows Mount Antero is over 14,000 feet high. That’s not something we could just climb in 
one day,” Brian exclaimed.
“So what kinds of gemstones are up there?” Kevin asked.
“Aquamarine, Topaz, Smoky Quartz, and a few others according to this website,” his dad 
replied. “It looks like we’ll need to bring a shovel and a rock hammer along with us so we can 
dig for them. It also says you have to be careful not to dig on anyone else’s mining claim,” his 
dad added.
“What’s a mining claim?” Kevin asked.
“It’s a small piece of land that a person has the right to mine for precious metals, gemstones, 
or other valuable minerals. In the old days, anyone caught on someone else’s mining claim could 
be shot. They were called ‘claim jumpers’ back then,” his dad replied.
“Really?” Kevin asked.
“Yep, a claim is your property. If we found a deposit of gemstones, we could claim it,” 
Brian said optimistically.
“I want to do that,” Kevin replied. Then he motioned for Splinter to meet him up in his 
room.
“Hey! What happened to my beer!” his dad yelled a few minutes later. Kevin and Splinter 
immediately broke out into laughter. Then when they heard him coming up the stairs, Kevin 
quickly closed his door and locked it.
“Splinter, I’m going to get you,” his dad said jokingly. Splinter stuck her tail out under the 
door and wiggled it back and forth a couple of times. Then she quickly withdrew it before Brian 
could grab ahold of it. “That’s not funny, I’ll get you eventually,” Brian promised. Splinter knew 
better than to try it again, humans were pretty slow, but Brian was faster than most.
Chapter 2
The next day Kevin woke up to the sound of chains rattling along the concrete driveway, 
followed by a loud metallic clang.
“What’s going on out there?” Splinter asked as she flew down from the bunk bed.
“My dad’s hooking up the tent trailer to the truck, which means we’re going camping,” 
Kevin said in an excited tone.
“Yeah!” Splinter exclaimed.
“Oh, I’m sorry… you don’t get to go this time,” Kevin replied in a sad, teasing tone.
“What!” Splinter pleaded. “You can’t leave your bestest buddy behind!”
“Just kidding,” Kevin replied. Splinter immediately poked him in the ear with the tip of her 
tail until he started to laugh.
“That tickles,” he said as he pushed her tail away.
“Oh really?” she remarked innocently.
“You know it does, silly dragon,” Kevin replied as he pulled out his backpack and started 
filling it with clothes for the camping trip.
“Don’t forget to bring plenty of dragon treats,” Splinter said as she nudged his arm.
“I will,” Kevin replied as he zippered his pack closed and then headed downstairs with it.
“Do you need any help?” Splinter asked.
“I suppose you want to help me by taking the bag of treats out to the truck?” Kevin 
remarked.
“If you insist,” Splinter said in an innocent tone.
“Are they safe with you?” Kevin asked.
“Yep, I might have to try one just to make sure they’re okay, but that’s it,” Splinter said in 
her most sincere tone. 
“Alright, I’ll get the bag out of the frig.” The moment he handed it to her, she flew out to the 
truck and hid in the backseat. Kevin knew she would eat the whole thing, so it was just a small 
bag with a few cut up pieces of hotdog in it. The real bag of treats was in the cooler. 
“Are you and Splinter ready to go?” his dad asked when he saw Kevin putting his things in 
the back of the truck.
“We are,” Kevin replied. Then he unfolded a small fluffy blanket and set it on the seat next 
to him.
“How is that?” he asked after Splinter curled up on it.
“Acceptable,” she replied with teasing look before changing color to match the fabric. “I 
don’t want anyone to see me when we get out on the highway,” she added with a snort.
“They would just think you’re a toy dragon,” Kevin joked. Splinter immediately reached 
over and nipped him on the arm.
“Ouch, that hurt! No more reptile treats for you,” Kevin scolded.
“There’s more?” Splinter asked while affectionately nudging against him.
“If you’re good,” Kevin remarked as he patted her on the head.
Chapter 3
“How did you sleep?” Brian asked as Kevin emerged from the pop-up mid morning.
“Pretty good,” Kevin replied. “Are we heading up the mountain now?”
“Yeah, we have to get up there before the weather turns bad. Fourteeners usually cloud over 
in the afternoon, and then you have to worry about lightning when you’re up near the top,” his 
dad replied.
“What did you say about lightning?” Splinter asked in a worried tone as she flew over next 
to Kevin.
“Oh right, I forgot about your little mishap with Mother Nature,” Brian chuckled.
“I was electrocuted and nearly died!” Splinter insisted.
“Aren’t you the one who’s always telling us how hard it is to kill a dragon?” Brian asked 
rhetorically.
“Dad!” Kevin interrupted, “Be nice to my dragon, she’s been through a lot.”
“Okay, I was just kidding,” Brian replied. Then he handed Kevin his helmet and pulled him 
up onto the ATV.
“What about breakfast?” Kevin asked.
“I put a bunch of snacks in my backpack… and yes, there are dragon treats in there too,” he 
added with a smile.
“Is mom coming with us?” Kevin asked.
“No, she’s going to stay down here and relax. I’m not sure digging through dirt and rocks is 
her idea of a good time,” Brian remarked.
“Okay,” Kevin replied. Then he set Splinter on his lap once he was ready to go.
The trail wound its way up through the trees for the first several miles. As they passed by a 
waterfall Kevin’s dad pulled over and took a couple of pictures of it.
“That’s pretty,” Splinter remarked before they started back up the trail.
When they reached the tree line at 11,000 feet, Kevin’s dad pulled off of the trail so he could 
take a few more pictures and stretch his legs.
“That’s Mount Antero,” he said pointing directly ahead of them. Kevin’s eyes followed the 
steep trail as it dotted its way up along the side of the mountain.
“We’re going up that?” he asked in a disbelieving tone.
“Yep,” his dad replied, suppressing any doubts that the ATV might not make it all the way 
to the summit.
Little by little they forged on. The ATV started to sputter after they passed by a hand carved 
wooden sign that read, ‘13,000 feet’ on it. The air was noticeably thinner and cooler, so Kevin 
zipped up his jacket and then looked down at Splinter.
“Are you warm enough?” he asked as he placed his hand on her side.
“I’m fine,” she replied, amused by the fact that humans needed so many layers of clothing to 
be comfortable.
“Let’s stop here and look around,” Brian suggested when they reached a large flat area 
known as the south saddle. It was a mile long expanse that bridged the summit of Mount Antero 
with its slightly smaller neighbor, Mount White.
“So what do the gemstones look like?” Kevin asked as he climbed off the ATV.
“Blue aquamarines, yellow topaz, and smoky quartz,” his dad answered. “The best 
gemstones are found in pockets and pegmatite veins. The other thing to keep an eye out for are 
gemstones that have weathered out of their veins, and might be mixed in with the loose rocks on 
the surface. That’s probably our best bet for finding something today,” Brian admitted.
“Okay,” Kevin replied as he picked up a trowel and headed diagonally along the base of 
Mount Antero’s summit. Splinter followed after him while Kevin’s dad walked over to examine 
an interesting outcropping of rocks just above them.
“Find anything yet?” Brian called out after they had been searching for a while.
“I found one rock with a small light blue crystal on it,” Kevin replied. Then he handed the 
specimen to Splinter, who flew it over to his dad.
“It looks like an aquamarine to me,” Brian remarked after looking it over for a minute. “Not 
gem quality, but it’s still a nice sample,” he added.
Kevin immediately started to dig in the spot where he had found the aquamarine. After 
excavating a sizeable hole without finding anything else, he moved further up the hill. From time 
to time Splinter would bring a rock over for Kevin to look at, but none of them appeared to be 
gemstones.
“I’m not having much luck,” Kevin said as he looked over at his dad.
“It’s been picked over pretty good. Sorry, I didn’t know,” his dad said in a disappointed 
tone. 
“I think a raindrop just hit me,” Kevin announced.
“Yeah, we better pack it up,” his dad said after looking up at the swirling clouds. 
“I wish we would have found something better,” Kevin remarked as he walked back to the 
ATV.
“I know, next time we’ll have to bring some dynamite with us,” his dad said with a smile. 
Kevin laughed and then climbed up on the ATV. Splinter immediately flew into his lap when she 
heard a distant rumble of thunder.
“Are you ready to go?” Brian asked.
“I am,” Kevin replied. Splinter nodded and then lowered her head down as if that would 
protect her from the weather.
Once they reached the tree line, Kevin tugged on his dad’s jacket, signaling he wanted him 
to stop.
“What is it?” Brian asked as he pulled off of the trail.
“I need to use the bathroom,” Kevin replied as he eyed a group of small windblown trees a 
few paces away. His dad nodded and then turned off the ATV. Kevin quickly ran behind the 
trees and didn’t reappear.
“Kevin?” his dad yelled out when he thought enough time had passed.
“Do you want me to fly over and see what’s keeping him?” Splinter offered. 
 “Where is he?” Brian asked with a concerned look on his face when Splinter returned 
without him.
“Don’t worry, he’s not hurt, but he fell through some rotten boards that were covering the 
entrance to a mine,” Splinter reported. Brian immediately jumped off the ATV and ran over 
behind the trees.
“Are you okay?” he asked as he peered down into the dark hole where his son had fallen.
“I’m fine!” Kevin yelled back, sounding a bit embarrassed.
“Thank goodness,” his dad replied. I have a roll of para-cord back at the ATV, just stay 
where you are and I’ll be right back to get you out!”
“Okay dad,” Kevin replied.
A few minutes later Brian returned with a flashlight and a roll of para-cord. After he 
unraveled the cord, he lowered it and the flashlight into the hole so Kevin could reach it.
“Just wrap the para-cord around your waist and then tie it tight… use more than one knot,” 
his dad instructed.
“Where are you going?” Brian asked in an anxious voice when Kevin stepped out of his 
sight for a moment.
“Nowhere, I’m just finishing up the knot,” Kevin replied after zipping his jacket closed.
“You will have to use your feet to climb up as I pull on the para-cord, but don’t worry, I 
won’t let you fall,” his dad promised.
“Alright, I’m ready,” Kevin replied. His dad slowly backed away from the edge, and then 
started pulling him up. When he reached the top, Brian grabbed his hand and lifted him the rest 
of the way out.
“Are you sure you’re not hurt?” Brian asked as he looked him over.
“I’m fine,” Kevin replied as he brushed the dirt off his pants. Splinter rushed over and licked 
him on the cheek until he personally reassured her that he was okay.
“Was it scary down there,” Splinter asked.
“A little, but I think I found something valuable while I was down there,” Kevin said as he 
reached into his jacket and pulled out an antique looking silver box.
“What is that?” Splinter asked as her eyes lit up with excitement.
“I don’t know,” Kevin replied as he handed it to his dad so he could take a closer look at it.
“This is really old,” Brian remarked as he brushed some of the dirt and ice off the top of it.
“How old?” Kevin asked.
“I don’t know, but the writing looks Celtic and I think the box is made of silver,” his dad 
said as he examined it more closely.
“Is that why it feels so heavy?” Kevin asked.
“No, there’s something in it,” Brian replied.
“Should we open it up so we can see what’s inside?” Kevin suggested, as he hoped it would 
be filled with treasure.
“I think it’s locked,” his dad replied after gently prying on the lid. Then he carefully turned 
it on its side and saw a small keyhole on the front. “Maybe if we had something small and hook 
shaped we could release the locking mechanism.”
“What about this?” Splinter offered as she held out her tail.
“Okay,” Brian replied. Then he held the box steady while Splinter twisted and turned her tail 
several times.
After a couple of attempts, the box made a clicking sound, and the lid sprung open.
“Are those eggs?” Kevin asked with an air of disappointment as he peered into the box.
“I think so,” his dad replied, unsure as to what type of eggs they were.
“Those are dragon eggs!” Splinter said with a look of shock on her face.
“Are you kidding me?” Kevin said in disbelief.
“No, those are definitely dragon eggs,” Splinter insisted.
“Pigmy Dragon eggs?” Kevin questioned.
“No, they’re too big for that,” Splinter replied as she picked one up to look at it. “Oh my 
gosh!” she gasped when the sunlight illuminated the egg.
“What’s wrong?” Kevin asked.
“The dragon inside this egg is still alive!” Splinter announced in disbelief. Then she gently 
set the egg back into the box and carefully inspected the other two. “These are alive as well!”
“Can they still hatch?” Kevin inquired.
“If they warm up, I don’t see why not,” Splinter replied.
“How can that be? They’re so old,” Brian questioned.
“Well, I know Pigmy Dragon eggs have been know to hatch many years after being laid if 
they were kept cold,” Splinter revealed.
“Okay, but this box looks like it might be hundreds of years old,” Brian remarked. “Are you 
sure the eggs are still good?”
“They look fine to me, but we would need to show them to Luxor to know for sure,” 
Splinter replied as she glanced at them.
“Who’s Luxor?” Kevin asked.
“Um… he’s the one you call the blue dragon,” Splinter said in a hesitant tone.
“Do we dare go back there?” Kevin exclaimed.
“I don’t think you realize the significance of these eggs. The simple fact that I don’t 
recognize them means they belong to some rare or unknown species of dragon. These eggs might 
be the last of their kind in the world.”
“Could they be Water Dragon eggs?” Kevin suggested.
“They are the correct size and shape, but Water Dragon eggs are pearlescent, and as you can 
see these are very dark.”
“Is that because they are so old?” Kevin asked.
“I don’t think so, but that is why I think I need to consult with Luxor. His knowledge of 
dragon history dates back over a thousand years. If anyone knows what kind of eggs these are, it 
will be him,” Splinter insisted.
“You two can decide what to do with the eggs later,” Brian interjected. “I think we should 
probably head back now so your mom doesn’t start to worry about us... and one more thing, 
when we get back to the camp, let me do the talking. I don’t want the tunnel incident to be 
dramatized,” Brian added as he looked over at Kevin.
“Dad, I don’t do that,” Kevin replied, but his father just rolled his eyes and then headed back 
over to the ATV without responding.
Once everyone was seated, he started it up, and they continued down the trail.
Chapter 4
On the way back from camping at Mount Antero, Kevin’s dad stopped in Bailey to get gas 
and then turned down the road leading to Wellington Lake.
“You’re such a marshmallow,” Josie said as she looked over at Brian while shaking her head 
from side to side.
“What?” Brian replied. “Splinter and Kevin need to solve the mystery of the dragon eggs.”
“I think you and your son have watched too many Scooby-Doo episodes.”
“Perhaps, but in all seriousness, Splinter seems to think the dragons inside the eggs are still 
alive.  There is no harm in having them checked out, especially if they’re rare,” Brian suggested.
“I agree,” Josie said as she opened the lid to take another look at the eggs. “It does seem like 
someone went to a lot of trouble to keep these safe,” she added after seeing how each egg fit 
perfectly inside the satin lined box.
“Yeah, and I think the box is made of real silver,” Brian remarked.
“The design looks Celtic,” Josie replied.
“I thought so too.”
“I wonder who it belonged to, and why they left it in an abandoned mine?” Josie asked as 
she gently set it back down.
“It’s hard to say,” Brian responded as they continued down the gravel road towards 
Wellington Lake.
“So, what’s the plan when we get there?” Kevin asked as he looked over at Splinter.
“I will fly up to the top of Castle Mountain and see if I can find Luxor. If I am successful, 
then I will ask him to come down with me and examine the eggs,” Splinter answered.
“I don’t like that plan,” Kevin confessed. “What if Luxor decides to detain you because you 
are still living with humans?”
“I don’t think that will happen, he knew we were going to stay with you.”
“You are still breaking the law, and you will be on your own up there,” Kevin said in a 
worried tone.
“Once I describe the eggs to him, I am confident he will want to see them. Like I said 
before, I believe they are extremely rare,” Splinter insisted.
“Alright, but I’m coming to rescue you if don’t come back in a reasonable amount of time,” 
Kevin promised.
“There is one more thing,” Splinter added. “If I am successful in getting Luxor to come back 
with me, it would be best if your parents weren’t around. Luxor knows you, but I don’t believe 
he will help us if he sees your parents nearby,” Splinter said as diplomatically as she could.
“I heard that,” Brian interrupted as he pulled into the campground. 
“Dad, stop snooping,” Kevin said with a frown.
“Alright, your mom and I can take a walk around the lake while you two meet with Luxor if 
you like?” Brian offered.
“Yes please,” Kevin replied.
After his dad drove around to the back side of the lake, he parked the truck and then left 
with Josie.
Once they were out of sight, Kevin got out of the truck with Splinter.
“I’ll be back as soon as I can,” Splinter said as she gave Kevin a reassuring look. Then she 
flew off towards Castle Mountain while he sat at a picnic table waiting for her return.
Every minute that Splinter was gone Kevin’s mind kept playing all the worst-case scenarios 
it could come up with. He hated the idea that she was up there by herself, and wished he had 
never agreed to it. After what seemed like an eternity of waiting, Splinter landed on the picnic 
table next to him and uncloaked after she saw that there was no one else around.
“You’re back!” Kevin said with a sigh of relief. “How did it go?” 
“Good,” Splinter replied as Luxor uncloaked on the table next to her.
“So let’s see those eggs,” he grumbled. Kevin nodded and then went inside the truck to 
retrieve the box. A moment later he set the box on the table and opened it up.
“It can’t be…” Luxor exclaimed as he looked on in amazement.
“Do you know what kind of dragon eggs they are?” Splinter asked.
“They’re Fire Dragon eggs!” Luxor replied as he lifted one up to examine it more closely, 
“and they’re still alive!”
“I told you,” Splinter remarked.
“Where did you find them?” Luxor asked as he looked over at Splinter.
“Kevin found them,” she answered.
“You are an extraordinary boy,” Luxor said as he eyed Kevin suspiciously. “Not only are 
you the first human to have befriended a dragon in a millennium, but now you’ve discovered 
Fire Dragon eggs. A species that we all thought to be extinct… my goodness, what forces are at 
work in you young man?”
Kevin didn’t reply, unsure of what to make of Luxor’s assessment of him.
“Kevin found the eggs in an abandoned mine up on Mount Antero,” Splinter remarked. 
“How high up were they?” Luxor asked.
“It was right at the edge of the tree line,” Splinter replied.
“How fortunate… whoever put them there must have known that freezing temperatures 
would prevent them from hatching and also keep them preserved,” Luxor stated as he inspected 
the box.
“What do you make of it?” Kevin asked, when he realized Luxor was admiring it.
“It’s from the medieval period,” he replied. “Made by a master silversmith who designed it 
specifically for these eggs,” he added.
“So, a human wanted to preserve them?” Kevin asked in a cautious tone.
“It would appear so,” Luxor admitted.
“What should I do with the eggs?” Kevin asked.
“Well they’re going to hatch now that they have warmed up,” Luxor replied.
“You should take them,” Kevin suggested.
“Oh no, Fire Dragons can’t camouflage themselves like we can. They would be seen by the 
humans that come here, and then we would be forced to move!” Luxor exclaimed with a 
disapproving snort.
“I don’t understand. If these are so rare, you need to take them and protect them,” Kevin 
insisted.
“No, Castle Mountain is our sacred home.” Luxor said without elaborating further. Kevin 
could tell that there was a lot more to this story than Luxor was saying, but he didn’t want to 
push the issue.
“I don’t think my parents are going to let me keep three more dragons at my house.”
“Do you have any other friends that you can trust to take care of them, someone who can 
keep their existence, and ours, a secret?” Luxor suggested.
“What about your law about keeping hidden and not interacting with humans?” Kevin 
questioned.
“The law was enacted to protect the surviving species of dragons, but what you have 
discovered is outside of the law. You must find them a home away from this place,” Luxor 
insisted.
“Okay, I’ll do that, but I need to know more about them,” Kevin remarked.
“I will tell you what I know,” Luxor agreed.
“How big are they going to get?”
“About twenty feet long when they’re full grown… but they only need to be looked after 
until they are able to survive on their own,” Luxor replied.
“So, exactly how old do they need to be before that happens?” Kevin asked hesitantly.
“Three months should be enough,” Luxor answered.
“That might work, but what about the whole breathing fire thing?” Kevin asked.
“They can’t breathe fire until they reach maturity. I don’t know at what age that will happen 
for them, but I am sure it’s not for many months,” Luxor asserted.
“I think my friend David might be willing to take care of them. His family has a large 
unfinished basement that could work as a dragon nursery depending on what else they might 
need,” Kevin hinted.
“All they need is water, meat, and someone to teach them dragon etiquette. Splinter and her 
brother could help your friend with that part,” Luxor suggested as he looked over at Splinter.
“My brother and I would be happy to help,” Splinter replied. “We can even assist David in 
finding a suitable place to let the dragons go, when that time comes.”
“It sounds like you have the problem solved,” Luxor remarked.
“Yeah, I’ll see if my friend is willing to raise the dragons. To be honest, I think he will be 
excited about the prospect of having them,” Kevin revealed.
“Why would a human be excited about taking care of a dragon?” Luxor asked as he looked 
over at Splinter.
“After spending a year living with Kevin, I can tell you a lot has changed since the old days. 
Humans have children’s books about us and cartoons where we live amongst them and help 
them,” Splinter explained.
“Yeah, but that’s just fairytale kid’s stuff,” Luxor alleged. “In the real world humans would 
imprison us in zoos, scientists would dissect us, and those who fear us would have us 
exterminated like some pest.”
“I don’t think that’s true anymore,” Splinter contended. “From what I have seen, even the 
adults have changed their view of us. Dragons are actually portrayed as majestic and powerful 
creatures in their lore. Some of Kevin’s ancestors are from Wales, and Draig Gogh is depicted on 
their national flag. If that’s not enough, Kevin’s father has a Fire Dragon tattooed on his arm and 
his mom wears a golden dragon pendant around her neck. I could cite a dozen more examples if 
you like,” Splinter added.
Luxor looked down for a moment as he thought about what Splinter had said. Then he 
turned to Kevin and asked, “If you and your family honor dragons, and your ancestors are from 
Wales, then you might be a descendant of the Dragon Wizard.”
“I doubt that,” Kevin scoffed, not really sure who or what Luxor was referring to.
“Perhaps not,” Luxor snorted as he camouflaged himself and then flew off.
“What’s a dragon wizard?” Kevin asked Splinter after Luxor was gone.
“When humans discovered gold in southern Wales, they captured a large and powerful Fire 
Dragon named Draig Gogh. Then they forced him to work at gold mine near the Cothi River. At 
the mine, there was a young slave woman whose job it was to feed him and clean his cage each 
day. Over time, the two became friends and learned to trust each other. 
One day the slave woman revealed that she was pregnant, and since she was a slave, her 
child would be forced into servitude or killed since she could not care for it. Rather than see her 
offspring taken from her, she and Draig formed a pact. Once the child was born, she would set 
Draig free, and he would protect the child and see that he was taken care of.
Their plan apparently worked, and after the woman gave birth to a little boy, Draig took the 
child and cared for him. Since Draig knew that the child would need to learn about life from 
other humans in order to fit into their society, he bartered with a local sheepherder and they took 
him in and raised him as their own.
As the boy grew, it was said that he had the power to heal sick or injured animals. When the 
war between dragons and humans spread, he used his gift to save the dragons that needed his 
help. He wasn’t able to stop the war, but in a time when dragons were demonized, he was one of 
the few humans that fought to protect them. No one ever knew what became of the boy who 
could heal dragons, but the tale of his deeds has been handed down for generations. In fact, he is 
known by dragons everywhere as the Dragon Wizard.
“What an incredible story. Do you believe it’s true?” Kevin asked.
“It was a long time ago,” Splinter replied.
“I never knew that the dragon on the Welsh flag was Draig Gogh. I wonder why my 
ancestors chose a dragon for their flag when they fought against them in the middle ages?”
“Maybe your ancestors did not participate in that fight, or maybe they fought for the other 
side,” Splinter hinted.
“I guess we’ll never know,” Kevin said as he pulled the radio out of his pocket and 
depressed the transmit button. “Dad, Splinter and I are ready to go.”
“Okay, we’re on our way back,” his dad replied.
Chapter 5
When Kevin got back home the first thing he did was call Emalyn and tell her about the 
discovery of the Fire Dragon eggs. 
“That’s so amazing,” Emalyn replied when he finished the lengthy story.
“What do you think is the best way to tell David about the dragons?” Kevin asked.
“I don’t know… maybe I could come over with Striker and together we can let him in on 
our little secret,” Emalyn suggested.
“That’s a good idea. If he sees we both have dragons, then hopefully he will want them too,” 
Kevin replied.
“I am sure he will, you know how excited he gets over baby animals,” Emalyn remarked.
“Yeah, let me give him a call and see if he is free, but either way, you and Striker might as 
well come over. I know Splinter has been wanting to play with her brother,” Kevin suggested.
“Sure, we’ll be there in a little bit,” Emalyn replied.
“Okay, I’ll see you then.” After Kevin got off the phone with Emalyn he immediately called 
David.
“Hello?” David replied.
“Hey, it’s me,” Kevin said in a familiar tone.
“What’s going on?” David questioned as if sensing Kevin was up to something.
“Can you come over? Emalyn and I have something to show you,” Kevin remarked.
“Is everything okay?” David asked suspiciously.
“Yeah, I just can’t tell you over the phone, it’s more of a show, than a tell,” Kevin insisted.
“Alright, I’ll be over as soon as I can.”
A few minutes later the doorbell rang and Kevin rushed downstairs to see who it was.
“Hi Emalyn, hi Striker,” Kevin said as he let them inside.
“Is David coming over?” Emalyn asked after noticing he wasn’t there.
“Yeah, he’s on his way,” Kevin replied.
“How are the eggs doing?” Striker asked.
“They look the same to me, but Splinter said they are really close to hatching,” Kevin 
replied.
“Where is my little sister?” Striker asked.
“She’s upstairs hiding from you,” Kevin whispered. Striker immediately flew off in search 
of her. When he reached the top of the stairs and started to turn the corner, Splinter pounced on 
him. Then they rolled around on the carpet in a dragon ball laughing at each other, before 
heading into Kevin’s bedroom.
“Don’t destroy my room,” Kevin reminded them, thinking back to the last time when Striker 
had come over. On that visit, Striker had pulled all the blankets off of his bed and made forts out 
of them.
“Here comes David,” Emalyn announced after peeking through the blinds on the front 
window.
“Oh, thanks, I’ll let him in,” Kevin replied. Then as David ran up to the door, Kevin opened 
it for him.
“So, what’s going on?” David asked.
“Why don’t you follow Emalyn and I up to my room, the surprise is in there,” Kevin hinted.
“Okay,” David replied, half expecting it to be some new computer game or cool toy.
As Kevin slowly pushed the door open, David stood there speechless for several minutes as 
he watched the dragons playing with each other.
“Are those real?” David asked in disbelief.
“Yep, Emalyn and I have pet dragons. The bright green one is Splinter and the darker green 
one is her brother Striker,” Kevin said proudly.
“Oh my gosh, they’re so cute. Are they baby dragons?” he yelled with excitement. Splinter 
immediately stopped chasing her brother and looked over at David. Then she said, “We’re not 
baby dragons, we’re Pigmy Dragons!”
“They can talk!” David yelled out in a burst of uncontrollable excitement.
“Yes they can,” Kevin calmly replied.
“Where did you get them?”
“Emalyn and I rescued them when we went camping awhile back… it’s kind of a long story, 
so I’ll tell that part later. The real reason I wanted you to come over is because Emalyn and I 
need your help. We have three dragon eggs that are going to hatch soon and we don’t have 
anyone to take care of them…”
“I’ll do it!” David blurted out.
“Okay, but these eggs aren’t Pigmy Dragons eggs, they’re from a Fire Dragon. The last ones 
in existence,” Kevin added with emphasis.
“Okay, so what do I need to do?” David asked.
“Would your parents let you use your basement as a dragon nursery?”
“Yeah, nobody uses it,” David replied.
“Good, because unlike Pigmy Dragons, these dragons are going to get big. They are also 
going to be able to breathe fire once they mature, so you won’t be able to keep them as pets,” 
Kevin insisted.
“Okay. So, how long will I need to care for them?” David asked.
“Well, there haven’t been any Fire Dragons around since medieval times, so it’s a bit of a 
guess… but they should be able to survive on their own after about three months,” Kevin replied.
“Okay, so after they hatch what do I feed them?” David asked as he looked down at Splinter 
and Striker who were still playing with each other.
“Mother dragons nurse their young until their teeth come in, then they eat meat,” Splinter 
replied.
“I thought only mammals produced milk to nurse their young?” David remarked.
“Female dragons feed their young mouth to mouth, like a baby bird.”
“Oh, that’s gross,” David replied, repulsed by the idea of being fed regurgitated food.
“It’s not like that,” Splinter scolded. “Birds and reptiles are related, not the same. Mommy 
dragons have a gland in their throat that produces a milk-like substance, and they feed that to 
their young. It might look like the same thing that birds do, but it’s not, which is why it’s called 
nursing.”
“Humans often use a milk-like substance called formula, it’s not the same thing as milk and 
babies love it, may dragons would too?” Kevin suggested.
“That sounds perfect,” Splinter replied.
“Is there anything else I need to know?” David asked as he looked over at Kevin.
“I think that’s it, but all of us will help you as much as we can,” Kevin said with a smile.
“I’m surprised you and Emalyn aren’t keeping the eggs and raising the baby dragons 
yourselves,” David remarked.
“Neither of us has a place to set up a dragon nursery… and you’re the only friend that I can 
trust to keep this secret,” Kevin admitted.
“What should I tell my parents about the eggs, there going to see them sooner or later?”
“Tell them the truth,” Kevin suggested.
“Do you think they are going to believe me when I show them the eggs and say they are 
from a dragon?” David scoffed.
“Maybe not… I’ll have my mom tell your mom about the dragons. Then they will know that 
you are telling the truth about the eggs,” Kevin suggested.
“That’s a good idea,” David replied as he reached down to touch one of the dragons. When 
Striker saw what he was doing, he pushed Splinter out of the way so he could get petted instead 
of her.
“Hey!” she snarled, before playfully biting her brother on the tail to get him back.
Chapter 6
The next morning Kevin saw David’s mom Toni pull into their driveway from his bedroom 
window. 
“Hey mom, your friend Toni is here.”
“Okay,” Josie replied as she went down to let her friend in.
“Hi Josie, I’m sorry to bother you, but David insisted that I come over right away,” Toni 
sighed.
“Oh good, I was going to invite you over so we could talk about some things,” Josie replied.
“I know all about your son’s pet dragon, David won’t stop talking it,” Toni said in total 
disbelief.
“You realized that he is telling the truth?” Josie asked.
“Oh, you’re such a good mom, always supporting your son’s creativity. I’m just not sure he 
should be telling David that dragons are real. Now, he’s convinced that he saw one,” Toni 
laughed.
“David is telling the truth,” Josie replied.
“I think kids should have vivid imaginations… wait, did you just say he’s telling the truth?” 
Toni questioned.
“Yes, Kevin does have a real pet dragon,” Josie replied. “I’ll have him bring her down so 
you can see for yourself… but you might want to sit down for this.”
“Okay,” Toni said with a cautious laugh, half expecting Kevin to come down with a stuffed 
animal in his hands. 
“Her name is Splinter,” Kevin said as he walked over to Toni so she could see the dragon. 
Toni sat there speechless, as Splinter curled up in Kevin’s arms and yawned.
Once Toni recovered from the initial shock of seeing a real dragon, Josie explained the story 
of how Kevin and Emalyn had saved her. Then she told Toni about the Fire Dragon eggs and 
how they needed someone to raise them.
“Well, I guess I owe my son an apology,” Toni said after Kevin took Splinter back to his 
room.
“Are you going to let David take care of the dragon eggs?” Josie asked.
“I have to now, it’s the only way he will ever forgive me for not believing him,” Toni 
admitted.
“You’ll have to keep all of this a secret,” Josie remarked.
“Oh, I definitely will,” Toni replied. “If word of this got out, my house would be turned into 
a circus. You know how the media loves to turn everything into a freak show.”
“Yeah, I don’t believe half of what they say anymore,” Josie added.
“Well, I better get back home, David is probably wearing out the carpet by the front door,” 
Toni remarked.
“Thanks for stopping by, I’ll let Kevin know your leaving so he can give you the eggs,” 
Josie said as she called up the stairs for him.
A few moments later, Kevin can down with the silver box tightly clutched in both hands.
“They’re the last of their kind,” Kevin said in a protective voice.
“I’ll make sure that David takes good care of them,” Toni replied.
“Thank you for helping us,” Kevin said with a smile.
“You’re welcome,” she replied before heading out the door.
Once Toni was gone, Kevin thanked his mom for talking to her, and then returned to his 
room.
Later that day, Kevin received a text from David that the first egg had a small crack in the 
shell and he thought it might be starting to hatch.
“I’ll be right over,” he texted back. Then he ran out to the garden looking for his mom.
“What’s up?” she asked as he came running over to her.
“David said the first egg is starting to hatch… can Splinter and I go over and see it.”
“Sure, just be back before dinner,” she replied.
“Thanks mom,” Kevin said as he rushed off to get Splinter. 
“What’s going on?” Splinter asked when he woke her up from her afternoon nap.
“One of the eggs is starting to hatch,” Kevin replied in an excited tone.
“Okay, tuck me in a blanket and let’s go.” Splinter could have camouflaged herself and 
flown over to David’s house first, but she didn’t want Kevin to feel left out.
“Has the egg hatched yet?” Kevin asked the moment David opened the door to let them in.
“No, but the other two eggs have some cracks in them now,” David said with a look of 
excitement and concern.
“Does Emalyn know what’s going on?” Kevin asked as he and Splinter followed David into 
the basement.
“Yeah, she’s already here,” David replied.
“Hi Kevin, hi Splinter,” Emalyn said in a friendly voice.
“Hi, you sure got here fast,” Kevin remarked.
“I rode my bike,” she replied. Everyone suddenly went silent when one of the eggs made a 
cracking sound. An instant later a small dark red baby dragon head popped out through the shell 
and looked around the room at them. The basement immediately filled with ‘ooh’s’ and ‘awes’ 
as the little creature freed itself from the egg.
“See if the dragon is hungry,” David said to Emalyn who was standing closest to the bottle 
of formula.
“Okay,” she replied, seemingly mesmerized by the little fellow. “He likes it,” she said 
enthusiastically after the dragon started to drink from it.
“Is it a boy or a girl?” Kevin asked as he looked over at Splinter.
“It’s a boy,” Splinter replied. “Male dragons are always much darker in color than the 
females. That’s why I’m a beautiful shimmering green and my brother looks like a ball of dried 
mud,” she teased.
“Hey!” Striker remarked. “What did I do?” Just then, a second egg popped open, revealing a 
dark gray dragon with black scales running down his spine.
“Another boy,” Splinter exclaimed.
“I’ll feed this one,” David said as he reached across the table for a bottle of formula.
The dragon sniffed the formula for a moment and then started to drink it. David smiled when 
the little dragon paused to burp, before gulping more of it down.
A moment later the third egg started to crack open and then went silent.
“Should we help the dragon break out?” Emalyn asked with a concerned look on her face.
“Not yet, we don’t want to accidently hurt the dragon,” Splinter advised. 
After a few moments of anxiously waiting, a little green nose poked through the shell and 
took several deep breaths.
“You can do it,” Emalyn said in an encouraging tone. Then the dragon pushed with all its 
might and the egg split down the middle to reveal a light green dragon with golden tipped scales.
Splinter gasped with excitement, “it’s a girl…and in the rarest of all colors… gilded.”
Kevin retrieved the third bottle of formula from the edge of the table and held it close to the 
dragon’s little nose. The dragon sniffed the end of the bottle and then glanced over at her 
brothers who were gulping theirs down like two pigs. After a few more sniffs of the mysterious 
liquid, she finally decided to try it.
“Oh, she likes it,” Kevin remarked as he steadied the bottle for her. After she finished, she 
curled up next to her brothers and fell asleep.
“They’re so cute,” Emalyn said as she patted Striker on the head.
“I know,” David acknowledged. “I wish I could keep them forever.”
“You might change your mind when they’re twenty feet long and setting your house on 
fire,” Striker joked.
“Well, I better head back home,” Emalyn announced before taking one last look at the baby 
dragons.
“Me too,” Kevin added with a sigh as he followed her up the stairs.
“If you have any questions, contact me or my brother,” Splinter added as she flew up after 
Kevin.
“I will,” David replied. Then he pulled up a chair and turned down the lights so the little 
dragons could rest.
Chapter 7
Emalyn and Kevin went over to David’s house every chance they had. They knew that when 
the summer ended, the dragons would have to be set free. Kevin knew it was going to be hardest 
on David, so he worked out a plan with Splinter that he thought might help. Then he and Splinter 
went over to his house after lunch so they could talk to him about it.
After ringing the doorbell a couple of times, David came to the door and let them in.
“Sorry about that, I was out back with Charlie. He needed a potty break,” David remarked.
“How is he adjusting to the dragons?” Kevin asked.
“I don’t how well dogs and dragons mix, so I keep Charlie out of the basement,” David 
replied as he looked over at Splinter.
“They should be fine,” Splinter remarked.
“Did you want to see the dragons?” David asked.
“Yeah, but Splinter had a question for you,” Kevin replied.
“Okay, what’s up?” he asked.
“I know it’s several moths away, but once the Fire Dragons are gone I could come spend 
some time with you?” Splinter offered.
“That’s really nice of you, but I have known from the beginning that they would not be 
pets,” David admitted.
“Alright, but if you start to go through dragon withdrawal, I’m here to help… and if you 
have any left over dragon treats, I would be happy to dispose of those for you,” Splinter added.
“It’s funny how you work dragon treats into every situation,” David laughed. Splinter 
winked her eyes at him and then flew off.
“Speaking of dragons, how are the little ones doing?” Kevin asked.
“They are growing like crazy. The boys like to play rough with their sister, but even though 
she is a little smaller than them, she’s definitely the boss.” 
“Really? They don’t hurt each other when they play?” Kevin asked.
“No, apparently their scales are harder than they look,” David remarked as he opened the 
door to the basement.
“I think we should name them now that they are developing their own unique personalities,” 
Kevin suggested.
“No sappy human names!” Splinter interjected as she flew down the stairs after them.
“What about Buzz Lightyear?” David said jokingly. Splinter immediately swooped down 
and bit him on the butt before he could reach the bottom.
“Ouch!” he yelled out, rubbing the spot with his hand.
“That was nothing warm-blood, suggest another silly name and see what happens,” she said 
while bearing her teeth at him.
“No sense of humor in that dragon,” David remarked under his breath.
“What about naming the dark red one Draig in honor of the great dragon Draig Gogh from 
long ago?” Kevin suggested.
“That would be acceptable,” Splinter acknowledged.
“Can we call the other boy dragon Ironstone, on account of his coloration?” David asked as 
he moved a little further back from where Splinter had landed.
“Perhaps you should call Emalyn so she can name the girl dragon,” Splinter suggested.
“Okay,” David replied. After a short conversation with her over the phone, David said, 
“Esmeralda?” 
 “Esmeralda y Oro,” Splinter muttered to herself before responding. “Emerald and gold, just 
like her rare color. That will do nicely. I think that now that they are named, we should start 
thinking about where we can set them free,” Splinter suggested.
“What kind of habitat do they need for survival?” David asked.
“Fire Dragons used to live along the Mediterranean and up into northern Europe based on 
what Luxor told us. The most important thing to remember is that Fire Dragons can’t camouflage 
themselves, so they are going to need an area where humans rarely go. Caves would be a plus, 
and there has to be an abundance of small to medium sized animals or fish for them to feed on,” 
Splinter added.
“The southwest is the only area I know of that is remote enough for them to go unnoticed,” 
David replied.
“What about somewhere near Lake Powell?” Kevin suggested, “There’s an abundance of 
large fish in the lake, but I can’t remember if there are any caves in the area.”
“Let me go check,” David said as he ran upstairs to find his laptop. While they waited for 
David to return, Kevin and Splinter started playing with the young dragons.
“They’re almost as big as you are,” Kevin noted as he picked one up to tickle it on the 
stomach.
“Yeah, I think they have reached their maximum cuteness,” Splinter replied.
“I have some good news,” David yelled out as he came running down the stairs with his 
laptop
“What did you find?” Kevin asked.
“Lake Powell might be the perfect spot. The lake has over 2000 miles of shoreline, so 
finding a secluded area shouldn’t be that hard. Unfortunately, the only caves I could find are well 
known and visited by people. There are some abandoned uranium mines on the far side of the 
lake, but I’m not sure if dragons could live in those or not,” David remarked.
“It doesn’t matter if it’s a cave or an old mine,” Splinter replied. “Dragons are perfectly at 
home in either.
“Won’t the radioactivity from the uranium hurt them?” David asked.
“No, our scales not only protect us from getting sunburns, but they block out other forms of 
radiation as well.”
“I like the idea of abandoned mines. People generally avoid them, and I bet uranium mines 
would be especially unpopular,” Kevin remarked.
“Yeah, we just have to figure how to get them there,” David added.
“We still have lots of time to figure that out,” Kevin said as he pulled out his phone to see 
what time it was.
“Do you have to go?’ David asked.
“Yeah, we should head back home. It’s almost dinner time, and you know how dragons get 
when they miss a meal,” Kevin joked. Splinter squinted her eyes at him and then flew up the 
stairs.
“Alright, I’ll see you later,” David replied. Then he picked up a rubber dog toy, and started 
playing tug-a-war with the Fire Dragons.
“Your friend David seems to be getting pretty attached to the little ones,” Splinter mentioned 
while they were walking back home.
“I know, it’s going to be hard for him to let them go, even though he won’t admit it,” Kevin 
sighed.
“They are going to get really big and unruly if he waits too long,” Splinter added.
“I wouldn’t worry about that, David wants what’s best for the dragons, and if that means 
letting them go, then he will,” Kevin insisted.
Chapter 8
As the months passed by, the dragons continued to grow and become more independent. 
Esmeralda held her position as the most dominate of the three, and it was clear that she was a 
natural leader. Draig was the largest of the three dragons, measuring four feet long head to tail. 
His disposition was calm and respectful, while also being confident. David really liked his 
personality and he knew it would be hard to see him go. Ironstone was the most precocious of 
the three, and seemed to find new ways to get into trouble.
“Breakfast time,” David announced as came down the stairs with their food bowls. When he 
reached the last step, Ironstone sneak-attacked him and he dropped their food bowls on the floor. 
Ironstone quickly ate up the spilled food and then hid behind the storage boxes stacked in the 
corner.
“Ironstone!” David yelled in a parental tone. “Now I have to go back upstairs and get more 
food for your siblings.”
“Can you get me some more while you’re up there?” he said as he peeked out from his 
hiding place.
“Ugh!” David sighed. “All you do is eat and poop!”
“Is he really mad at me?” Ironstone asked when David left the room.
“I don’t know,” Draig replied, sounding a bit unsure if he really was or not. Ironstone 
huffed, and then went over to the basement window and stared out of it. “I’m leaving,” he said as 
he unlatched the window with his tail and slid it open.
“Get back in here!” Draig yelled, but before he could stop him, Ironstone jumped out.
“Let him go,” Esmeralda said in a disappointed tone. “He’ll be back when his stomach starts 
to grumble.”
“I don’t think so,” Draig replied. “He’s been sneaking out at night and hunting in the field 
behind David’s house.”
“Oh no, that fool probably thinks he can survive on his own,” Esmeralda remarked in a 
nervous tone.
“I guess I should have mentioned it before now, but I thought he just needed some freedom 
from the basement,” Draig admitted.
“If he gets caught we’re all going to be in big trouble… I think we better go get him!” 
Esmeralda said as she jumped out the window.
“Should I tell David what Ironstone did before we go?” Draig asked.
“No, let’s try and get him back before anyone sees him,” Esmeralda replied.
“Alright,” Draig said as he followed out. He stayed close behind her, ducking behind bushes 
and large clumps of grass as they tracked Ironstone’s footprints across the dusty field.
“There he is,” Esmeralda whispered as she pointed towards the far edge of the abandoned 
pasture. They could clearly see Ironstone was perched over a prairie dog hole next to the road 
that led into David’s neighborhood.
“That idiot is going to be seen for sure,” Draig snorted as they crept towards him. When they 
were just within yelling distance, three cars suddenly turned onto the road leading into the 
subdivision. Draig and Esmeralda froze and then looked on nervously as the cars approached. 
The first vehicle sped past Ironstone, seemingly unaware of the large gray dragon standing out in 
the field. The second car also passed by without noticing him. The third car passed Ironstone, 
and when Esmeralda was about to stand up and call for him, it suddenly stopped, and then started 
backing up.
“Run!” Esmeralda yelled out. Ironstone immediately looked in their direction, and then saw 
the car had veered off the road and was heading straight towards him.
“Run! They’re going to catch you!” Draig yelled out as loud as he could. Ironstone bolted in 
their direction and then all three of them ran across the field towards David’s house. The car 
chased after them, getting closer with each passing minute.
“Faster, he’s gaining on us!” Draig yelled. The car’s engine roared behind them, and then 
suddenly stopped. When Draig looked back, he could see the driver waving his arms in 
frustration when his car couldn’t get over the drainage ditch.
“What were you thinking?” Esmeralda scolded once they all got back inside the basement.
“I don’t know…” Ironstone replied as he sulked in the corner.
“You were seen by that human!” Draig added with a tone of disappointment.
“I know… but David and his friends all know about us, and they’re cool with dragons,” 
Ironstone replied.
“They’re the only ones that know about us. Remember what Splinter has taught us, most 
humans are dangerous, and we have to keep out of their sight. The humans that are helping us are 
the exception, you have to remember that!” Draig insisted.
“Okay,” Ironstone replied as he held his head low. “I didn’t think it was such a big deal.”
“No more moonlight hunts either,” Esmeralda added with a disapproving snort.
“Really!” Ironstone cried.
“I mean it, you have to lay low from now on,” she demanded in an authoritative tone.
A moment later the door to the basement suddenly flew open and David came running down 
the stairs.
“What did you guys do?” he demanded in loud voice as he glared at them.
“I went outside,” Ironstone admitted.
“Well, an Animal Control officer just came to the front door and demanded that I let him in. 
I told him he couldn’t come in until my parents got home, and he said he would be back with a 
warrant.”
“What reason did he give for coming here?” Esmeralda asked.
“He claimed there was a report of a ‘giant lizard’ in my backyard,” David replied angrily.
“I’m so sorry,” Ironstone responded in a meek voice.
“I better call Kevin and let him know what’s happened,” David said as his worst fear had 
just been realized.
“Kevin, it’s me, we have a problem,” David said in a frantic tone the second Kevin 
answered.
“What’s wrong?” 
“Someone saw Ironstone outside my house and they reported it to animal control. I think 
they are coming back with a warrant so they can search the house. What should I do? My parents 
won’t be back for several hours,” David confessed.
“My dad will be home soon, and I think Emalyn’s mom is off work today… let me make a 
few calls and see what I can arrange,” Kevin replied.
“Okay,” David said in a nervous tone. After Kevin hung up, he went to the front room and 
kept a look out for the Animal Control Officer.
Then, after what seemed like a lifetime of waiting, his phone finally rang. 
“What took so long?” David asked.
“I’m sorry, I had to coordinate a bunch of things with multiple people. Emalyn and her mom 
will be over to your house shortly. I want you to get the dragons ready to go on a road trip. Make 
sure you have enough food and water for a couple of days, and a bunch of blankets to keep them 
out of sight while we are on the road. My dad will be over shortly to help out too,” Kevin assured 
him.
“Hurry,” David pleaded before hanging up. Then he took the dragons up to the garage and 
grabbed food and water for them.
“What’s going on?” Esmeralda asked in a worried tone.
“We’re going on a trip,” David replied. Then he hugged each Fire Dragon hoping it would 
comfort them. 
The dragons could tell things were not looking good, despite David’s attempt to hide the 
severity of the situation.
“What’s going to happen to us?” Esmeralda asked.
“It’s time to find you a new home,” David replied as he wiped his eyes.
“Is it that lake you and Kevin were talking about last month?” she asked innocently.
“Yes,” David replied with a half-hearted smile.
“What if that man comes back looking for us?” Esmeralda asked.
“Don’t worry, we are going to be long gone before he comes back,” David insisted even 
though his hopes were fading with each passing minute. When he heard the doorbell ring, he 
jumped up, and ran to the front door to see who it was. His heart was pounding in his chest as he 
peered through the peephole, praying it wasn’t going to be the Animal Control Officer on the 
other side of the door.
“Thank goodness it’s you,” David exclaimed as he rushed Kevin and Emalyn inside.
“Will you open the garage door so my dad and Emalyn’s mom can back their vehicles in. 
We don’t want your neighbors seeing what we are doing,” Kevin said in a hurried voice.
“Okay,” David replied as he rushed back into the garage.
“What’s going on?” Draig asked.
“I need you to stay back, Kevin’s dad and Emalyn’s mom are going to back their vehicles in 
so no one sees you guys,” David ordered.
“Okay,” Draig replied as he and the other two dragons moved away from the rising garage 
door.
Once the vehicles were in, David went back into the house to see what the next part of the 
plan was.
“Can you to put this old dragon costume on your dog Charlie?” Kevin asked.
“Okay, and then what?” David asked.
“Put him in the basement while Emalyn and I load the dragons into the vehicles,” Kevin said 
with a wink.
“Okay,” David smiled, when he realized what Kevin was doing.
A few moments later David returned to find Emalyn’s mom parked across the street a few 
houses down, and Kevin’s dad had pulled back out into the driveway.
“David, we’re ready to go!” Kevin said as he motioned for him to get into the front seat of 
the truck.
“Did you call your parents and let them know what’s going on? Brian asked, once both of 
the boys were buckled up.
“I did,” David replied. “And they know I’m going with you to release the dragons,” he 
added as he looked over his shoulder at the three blanket-covered lumps sitting quietly on the 
back seat.
“Okay, let’s get going,” Brian said as he started the truck, but before he could pull out of the 
driveway, a Sheriff’s car blocked him in.
“Turn off your engine!” the Sheriff ordered over the loudspeaker. Brian reluctantly complied 
as the Sheriff got out of his patrol car and walked over to the window.
“Keep quiet and let me do the talking,” Brian said before he rolled down his window. The 
boys nodded, but David suddenly felt ill when he saw the Animal Control Officer’s van pull up 
next to his house. Then, as if things couldn’t get any worse, the Animal Control officer had a 
piece of paper in his hand that looked like a search warrant.
“Is this your house?” the Sheriff asked in a gruff voice.
“No,” Brian replied.
“Are these your kids?” the Sheriff questioned.
“That’s my son and his friend David,” Brian replied hesitantly.
“That dark haired boy is the one who refused to let me into the house,” the Animal Control 
Officer yelled loud enough for the Sheriff and the rest of the neighborhood to hear him.
“Please remain in your vehicle for a moment,” the Sheriff ordered. Then he walked over to 
the Animal Control Officer only to return a moment later with the warrant in his hand.
“What’s going on?” Brian asked.
“A search warrant has been issued to search this house and the premises,” the Sheriff 
replied.
“For what?” Brian asked innocently.
“For the illegal possession, captivity, or breeding of endangered species,” the Sheriff 
replied.
“So, is that like a ticket or something?” Brian questioned.
“Sir, violations of the Endangered Species Act can carry fines up to $250,000 and two years 
in prison. In addition, any homes or vehicles used in the commission of the crime are subject to 
the Asset Forfeiture Act,” the Sheriff said as he stared suspiciously at the three lumps in the back 
seat of Brian’s truck. David felt his stomach churning as the Sheriff stood there while the Animal 
Control Officer went into his house and searched it.
A few minutes later the Animal Control Officer came back out holding Charlie who was still 
dressed in the dragon costume. 
“Wait here,” the Sheriff ordered. Then he walked over to see what the Animal Control 
Officer had found inside the house.
David could see the Sheriff laughing as the Animal Control Officer took the dragon costume 
off of Charlie. The embarrassed man started pointing at them, waving his hand in an angry 
fashion.
A few minutes later the Sheriff walked back over to the truck and stared at the back seat for 
a moment.
“Sir, the warrant allows the search of the house and premises, and since you’re parked in the 
driveway the Animal Control Officer has the right to search your vehicle,” the Sheriff 
announced.
“What if I refuse?” Brian said in a defiant tone.
“I would be forced to arrest you for obstruction, and the kids would be taken into protective 
custody until a suitable guardian picks them up. Either way, your vehicle is going to be 
searched,” the Sheriff insisted in an authoritative tone.
Brian looked over at the boys sympathetically and then said, “Okay, you can search my 
truck.”
“No!” David cried out. “Don’t let them take the dragons away!”
“It will be alright!” Brian said as pulled David out of the truck and held him tight.
A moment later the Animal Control Officer opened the back door to the truck and smirked 
arrogantly when he saw the blanket covered lumps sitting on the back seat. Then he jerked the 
blanket off to reveal what was hiding under it.
“What are these?” he gasped.
“They look like dragons!” the Sheriff replied as he burst out in laughter. “… stuffed dragons 
that is!” he laughed so hard that his handcuffs fell off of his duty belt.
“That’s not funny!” the Animal Control Officer replied angrily. “I want them arrested!”
“For what…?” the Sheriff said as he tried to regain his composure. “Dressing up a dog to 
look like a dragon, or making you look like a fool for believing that dragons are real?”
“That’s not fair… a concerned citizen called in a report that they saw a four foot lizard-like 
creature run into their basement,” the Animal Control Officer insisted.
“Yeah, but what they failed to mention was the four foot lizard was really just a dog wearing 
a costume,” the sheriff chuckled. 
“They’re hiding something, I just know it!” the Animal Control Officer insisted.
“Okay, did you find any exotic animals inside the house, or not?” the Sheriff asked.
“I didn’t,” the Animal Control Officer conceded in a disappointing tone.
“Then you don’t require my services any longer,” the Sheriff remarked.
“Are we free to go?” Brian asked. 
“Yes sir. Just let me move my patrol car out of the way… and sorry for the inconvenience,” 
he added as he walked away. 
The Animal Control Officer carefully inspected Charlie’s dog tag, and then begrudgingly 
handed him back to David without apologizing. Then he went back to his van and sped off.
Once Brian was sure that the Sheriff and Animal Control Officer were gone for good, he 
started his truck and slowly pulled out of the driveway.
“So, where are the real dragons?” David asked in a concerned tone.
“Emalyn’s mom has them, and they’re at my house waiting for us,” Brian replied.
“Oh, thank goodness,” David sighed in relief. Then he picked up one of the stuffed animals 
and threw it at Kevin. “You could have told me they were safe!”
“Sorry, we were all rushing around, and then the Sheriff arrived, and I was too scared to 
mention it,” Kevin admitted.
Once they got back to Brian’s house, David and Emalyn switched out the stuffed dragons 
for the real ones, while Kevin packed up a few more things for the trip.
“Is everyone ready to go to Lake Powell?” Brian asked after he hitched up the trailer to his 
truck.
“I think so,” Kevin replied after he looked over at David and Emalyn.
“Alright, I’m planning to drive through the night so we don’t have to worry about the Fire 
Dragons being seen along the way,”
“Sounds good dad,” Kevin said as they headed out.
Chapter 9
The drive to Lake Powell was long, but it gave everyone time to adjust to the fact that the 
Fire Dragons would soon be gone. Splinter and Striker did what they could to keep the mood 
light by poking each other and playing keep away with a ball of string. 
Once they turned off the highway and started down a forgotten gravel road, David handed 
out the last of the dragon treats. He knew letting them go was the right thing to do, but it was still 
going to be hard to say good-bye.
“This road is pretty rough,” Brian said under his breath as he slowed down to keep the trailer 
from being damaged.
“How much further is it?” Emalyn asked when she noticed a faint glow on the horizon.
“The GPS says 15 miles, but it might take a while to get there depending on how much 
worse this road gets. Typically, the further you get from the main road, the more the road you’re 
on deteriorates,” Brian remarked.
“Okay,” Emalyn replied as she held onto the seatbelt to prevent being bounced around.
As they continued down the road, it worsened as predicted, and Brian had to shift into four-
wheel drive to continue. “I hope we can get back out,” he said when the truck barely made it 
across a washed out section of the road. After that, they continued on for several more miles until 
the road abruptly ended at a large flat overlook.
“This must be it,” Brian exclaimed. Then after he parked the truck, they all got out and 
started looking around for the abandoned mine entrance. 
“Anyone see anything?” Brian asked as they searched the area several times to no avail.
“There’s something over here,” Emalyn announced when she noticed a dark opening behind 
some scrub brush that the rising sun had just illuminated.
“It might be unstable,” Brian warned as he peeked inside.
“I’ll go check it out,” Splinter offered.
“I’ll come with you,” Esmeralda said as she cautiously followed after her.
“Does it look safe?” Brian asked as waited at the entrance.
“It’s fine… we’re going to go further back inside,” Splinter replied. The main tunnel split 
into two and the dragons went in separate directions. Each of those tunnels branched off forming 
a network of interconnecting tunnels. Splinter turned back and then waited for Esmeralda where 
they had first split up.
“What do think?” Splinter asked when Esmeralda met up with her.
“It’s going to take us awhile to figure out where all of these tunnels and shafts go,” she 
replied with a look of excitement.
“I know, you and your brothers will have lots of fun exploring,” Splinter replied.
“I hope David is okay with us staying here,” Esmeralda said with a sadness in her voice.
“He is going to miss you and your brothers, but he is strong, and he only wants what’s best 
for you.”
“I will always remember him, and his friends,” Esmeralda admitted.
“I’m sure they will all come back to see you whenever they can,” Splinter declared.
“I hope so.”
“We should probably head back so the others don’t start to worry about us,” Splinter 
suggested.
When David saw Splinter and Esmeralda come out of the mine he ran over and greeted 
them.
“What’s it like inside there?” he asked.
“It’s perfect,” Esmeralda replied. “There are numerous tunnels and shafts along with several 
large underground rooms. I think my brothers and I will be very happy here.”
“I’m glad to hear that,” David replied, sounding a bit mournful.
“You can come visit us as often as you want,” Esmeralda said encouragingly.
“I will,” David replied as he patted her on the head. 
“We’re going in for a look,” Draig said as he and Ironstone flew into the mine.
A moment later Ironstone came flying back out screaming, “Something attacked me!” as a 
little brown bat fluttered past him.
“It’s just a bat, you big baby,” David said as everyone burst out laughing.
“Whew!” Ironstone replied, looking a bit embarrassed. “I thought those things only lived in 
caves.”
“It’s actually a good sign. Bats wouldn’t be in there unless it had been abandoned for a long 
time,” David replied.
“Hey, come look at this,” Kevin said as he pointed southward. “The lake is just below us, so 
you should be able to swoop down at night and catch all the fish you can eat.”
“Ooh, I like the sound of that,” Ironstone replied as he peered down at the lake and licked 
his chops.
“Ironstone will eat anything,” Draig jested.
“Except vegetables,” Esmeralda added with a snicker.
“No dragon eats vegetables!” Ironstone replied indignantly.
“Neither does my dad,” Kevin joked.
“Well he must be part dragon,” Draig said with a smile.
“I don’t know about that, but after being up all night long, I’m tired. If anyone else wants to 
join me for a nap, I’ll be inside the pop-up,” Brian remarked.
“I’m actually pretty worn out. I think I’ll go in and get some rest too,” Kevin said with a 
yawn. David and Emalyn followed him in, while the dragons went back to explore more of the 
mine.
“How long are we going to stay here?” David asked once they were inside.
“After we get some rest, we’ll have dinner together, and then it will be time to say good-
bye,” Brian replied with a hint of sadness in his voice.
“Thanks for helping us,” David said as he plopped down on the bed.
“My pleasure,” Brian replied.
Later that day, Brian woke up from his nap and saw that the Fire Dragons had come inside 
and were curled up next to David, while Splinter and Striker were both asleep next to Kevin and 
Emalyn.
“Awe, everyone has a pet dragon,” he muttered under his breath. Then he got out his smart 
phone and took a picture of everyone sleeping peacefully next to their dragons, before heading 
outside to start the campfire.
Not long after the fire was burning, Splinter came out and sat down near the package of 
hotdogs he had taken out of the cooler.
“You can have one,” Brian said as he opened the package for her.
“Thanks, you’re a good human. I can see where Kevin gets his kind heart. Perhaps one day 
all humans and dragon will become friends,” Splinter said after she gulped the treat down.
“I hope so,” Brian said with a smile. Then he gently patted her on the head, and handed her 
another hotdog.
“I hope so,” Brian said with a smile. Then he gently patted her on the head, and handed her 
another hotdog.
About the Series
The Dragon Adventure Series was inspired by my son and his room filled with dragon art, 
books, and posters honoring the beloved creatures. In addition, my family’s surname is of Welsh 
origin, so it seemed fitting to incorporate the Welsh dragon, Y Ddraig Goch into the storyline. I 
changed his name to Draig Gogh to make is easier for young readers to pronounce, and then 
added a host of friends to make the adventure come alive.
The rich mining history and unique geographical locations used in this series are inspired by 
real events and locations in Colorado, Wales, and Ireland. Some of the location names have been 
changed to fit the story, but anyone looking at a map should be able to identify their origin.
My hope is that this series will ignite the imaginations of readers young and old, along with 
anyone else who loves dragons. If you have any comments or questions, please feel free to 
contact me at the email address below.
Thanks again,
Ben L. Hughes
Email: kelso1900@yahoo.com <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Chapter 1
David saw the Animal Control Officer drive by his house early one morning and park across 
the street. He didn’t stay there very long, but the sight of the man unnerved him. It was as if he 
was unable to concede defeat, and spying on David’s house was some form of petty retribution.
Once the Animal Control Officer left, David immediately called Kevin on the phone. 
“Hello?” Kevin answered in a groggy voice.
“Hey, did I wake you?” David asked.
“Yeah, I was having a dream that something important popped out of the Celtic box,” Kevin 
replied.
“Like a dragon,” David joked.
“No, it was something else, but I can’t remember what,” Kevin admitted.
“I still have the box at my house, do you want it back?” David asked.
“Yeah, my dad was asking me about it the other day. You know how he gets when he can’t 
find something,” Kevin remarked.
“No problem. If you’re going to be around I can bring it over after I get dressed,” David 
suggested.
“Yeah, I’ll be here. I was just going to play on the computer after I get up,” Kevin replied.
“Alright, see you in a little bit,” David said before hanging up.
“Who was that?” Splinter asked as she peered down from the top bunk of Kevin’s bed.
“It was David,” Kevin replied.
“Is he coming over?” she asked.
“Yeah, in a few minutes.”
“Oh, good. I’ll get up then.”
“You do realize it’s still morning,” Kevin joked.
“Ha-ha!” Splinter replied. Then she flew down and grabbed Kevin’s pants before he could 
put them on.
“Give those back!” he demanded as he chased her down the hall in his underwear. Splinter 
dropped them at the top of the stairs and then camouflaged herself so he couldn’t find her.
“I will get you back,” Kevin said as he started putting them on. “Eew, you got dragon 
slobber on them!” 
“He-he-he,” Splinter laughed, until Kevin reached down and grabbed her off the stairs. 
“Hey, no fair! You can’t see me,” she grumbled.
“No, but I heard you snickering,” Kevin replied.
“What diabolical punishment are you planning to unleash on me?” Splinter joked as she 
wiggled in his arms, pretending to try and break free.
“None, you’re off the hook this time. David just texted me and he’s waiting at the front 
door,” Kevin said as he set her down.
“I win again,” Splinter laughed as she flew off. Kevin shook his head, and then went 
downstairs to let David in.
“Did you want to stay and hang out?” Kevin asked after David handed him the box.
“I can’t, my parents are taking me out for breakfast,” David replied.
“Okay... thanks again for bringing the box back,” Kevin said in an appreciative tone.
“You’re welcome. I’ll call you later.” David said as he headed out.
After David was gone, Kevin ran up the stairs to give his dad the box, but accidently tripped 
on the last step. When he fell, the box slipped out of his hand and tumbled down the stairs. Kevin 
ran back down to get it, and when he picked it up, he noticed a slight crease on the underside of 
it. 
“Darn it!” Kevin said as he gently opened the box to see how badly it was damaged on the 
inside. As he lifted out the satin lining, a small folded piece of paper fell out onto the ground. 
Kevin knelt down and picked it up, but it looked too fragile to unfold.
“Dad!” Kevin called out to get his attention.
“What is it?” Brian replied from the bedroom.
“Can you come here for a minute?” he asked.
“Just a minute, I’ll be right there.”
A moment later his dad came down dressed in a vibrant pink bathrobe with white lacy 
fringes.
“What are you wearing?” Kevin laughed.
“It’s your mom’s bathrobe or nothing at all. Your choice?” his dad replied.
“The robe, definitely the robe,” Kevin pleaded as he looked away.
“So, what’s the big emergency?” his dad asked when he reached the bottom of the stairs.
“David brought the Celtic box back, and this piece of paper fell out of it,” Kevin said as he 
handed him the note.
“This looks like parchment,” his dad commented as he carefully unfolded it.
“What is that?” Kevin asked.
“It’s specially treated animal hide that people wrote on before paper was widely available,” 
Brian replied.
“I was afraid to open it because it looked so fragile,” Kevin remarked as his dad held it up to 
the light. “I also wanted to let you know that I accidentally dropped the box and it put a small 
ding on the underside of it… sorry about that.”
“Oh, I think this is a map,” his dad replied without even realizing that Kevin had just 
apologized for damaging the box.
“There’s some writing on the side facing me,” Kevin remarked.
“You’re right,” Brian said after he turned the parchment over to look at the back of it.
“What does it say?” 
“This box and one other contain the last six Fire Dragon eggs in existence. My brother and 
I are descendants of the Dragon Wizard. And like our forefathers, we have been entrusted to 
preserve and protect the eggs until the dark days have passed. Our voyage has brought us to the 
new world, but the ways of the old still cloud the skies. When a new light shines forth, the two 
clans can be brought together, resurrecting that which has been lost. - T. J. 1874”
“Are there more eggs?” Kevin asked.
“That’s what it sounds like,” Brian replied as he felt a shiver run down his spine.
“Then we have to find them!” Kevin exclaimed.
“Hold on son… I don’t want you to get your hopes too high. This note was written over a 
hundred years ago and a lot could have happened since then. The other box of eggs may already 
have been discovered, or they may have been lost through time,” Brian warned.
“But no one else knows about this map,” Kevin insisted.
“That might be true, but even with a map it might be hard to find them. Landmarks change 
over time, and old mines crumble into ruin. Now having said that, I know how important this is 
to you, so I will help you find them if I can,” Brian said with a smile as he flipped the parchment 
over to study the map side.
“Any idea where they are?” Kevin asked as he peered over his dad’s shoulder.
“Well, there are two dots on the map, one marks Mount Antero and the other looks like it’s 
near a town called Waldorf,” Brian replied.
“Waldorf, where’s that?”
“I don’t know, I’ll have to look it up online,” his dad said as he carried the map into the 
office. Kevin followed after him, trying not to look at the undersized robe exposed his dad’s 
backside as he walked.
After a few minutes of searching online, Brian looked over at Kevin and smiled.
“We’re in luck, Waldorf is located near the Argentine Pass, twelve miles southwest of 
Georgetown.”
“Is that far?” Kevin asked.
“No, it’s west of Denver in the Red Mountain Mining District. The article says that silver 
was discovered in Waldorf in 1868. The veins were so rich that they produced over four million 
in silver before the boom ended. It also says the first silver ore produced from the Waldorf mine 
was sent to Swansea, Wales for processing,” Brian said, as if that fact was particularly 
fascinating.
“Why would they ship the ore half way around the world?” Kevin asked.
“Apparently there weren’t any smelters in the United States that could smelt the silver ores 
coming out of Waldorf, so they shipped them to Swansea for processing. It says that Swansea 
had the largest and most advanced smelters in the world, which used the Welsh Process to 
extract the precious metals for the ores,” Brian remarked.
“Does the website say how we can get to Waldorf?” Kevin asked.
“Yeah, it shows a paved road from Georgetown to Silverdale, and from there you have to 
take a 4x4 road up Leavenworth Canyon to reach Waldorf. It says Waldorf is located just over 
11,000 feet in elevation, making it one of Colorado’s highest ghost towns,” Brian replied.
“Isn’t that the same elevation where we found the other Fire Dragon eggs?” Kevin asked.
“Yeah, that’s right,” Brian recalled.
“So, when can we go there?” Kevin asked with a hopeful look.
“Since Waldorf is just a couple of hours away, how about I take you up there this 
weekend?” Brian suggested.
“Really!” Kevin said as he gave his dad a big hug.
“Yeah, your mom has plans with one of her friends, so it can be a father and son outing,” 
Brian replied. 
“What about me?” Splinter said as she flew down the stairs.
“We weren’t going to leave you behind,” Brian remarked.
“Good, because I was in the bathroom brushing my teeth and I heard you might be going 
somewhere fun without me,” Splinter replied.
“You don’t have a toothbrush,” Kevin interrupted with a look of concern.
“I know, I just borrowed yours,” Splinter admitted.
“Are you kidding me! I might have put that in my mouth after you’ve had it in yours!” 
Kevin said with a look of disgust.
“Well, I guess I won’t tell you what else I’ve used it for recently,” Splinter said as she flew 
off.
“I’ll buy you a pack of toothbrushes on my way home from work,” Brian laughed.
“Thanks dad. I’m going to go wash my mouth out with soap now that I know my toothbrush 
has gone where no toothbrush has gone before,” Kevin said as he slowly walked away.
Chapter 2
The next day, Kevin woke up early in anticipation of going to Waldorf. After he got dressed, 
he went over to the bunk bed to wake up Splinter. When he pulled back her blanket, he saw that 
she was lying on her back with her feet pointing straight into the air. “I wonder if dragons are 
ticklish?” he said to himself. Then he slowly reached over the edge of the bed rail and tickled her 
belly for a second. Splinter kicked her feet back and forth for a moment, and when she stopped, 
he tickled her again. Then he covered his mouth with one hand so his laughter wouldn’t wake 
her, and as he reached in to tickle her once more, she suddenly flipped over and bit his finger.
“Ouch!” Kevin cried out as he withdrew his hand.
“Oh come on, that didn’t hurt,” Splinter insisted.
“I know, I was just faking it,” Kevin confessed.
“So, are we going on a Fire Dragon egg hunt today?” she asked.
“Yep, my dad is already up and once he gets dressed we’re heading out.”
“Kevin, it’s time to go,” Brian called out.
“Okay dad, we’ll be right there,” he replied before heading downstairs with Splinter.
“Are you ready to go?” Brian asked once Kevin and Splinter had climbed into the truck.
“Yep, we’re ready,” Kevin replied.
“Did you bring you know who her treats?”
“Of course, there’re in my backpack,” Kevin said as he felt the side pocket to make sure he 
remembered them.
“Can I see them?” Splinter asked, blinking her eyes innocently.
“You can have one if you’re good,” Kevin promised.
“I’m always good,” Splinter proclaimed as she climbed up onto Kevin’s lap expectantly.
“Alright, I’ll give you one now, but that’s it until we get there.” Kevin said as he rolled his 
eyes at her.
“Thank you,” Splinter replied after gulping down the treat. Then she curled up into a ball 
next to him, and closed her eyes.
Kevin looked down and smiled at her, then pulled a small blanket out of his pack and 
covered her with it.
“Dragons sure are lazy,” Brian remarked as he looked over at her.
“Dad, she’s not lazy, she just gets bored when were in the truck,” Kevin insisted.
“You’re right, she’s a ball of fire,” Brian joked. Splinter poked her head out from under the 
blanket and glared at him for a moment before going back to sleep.
Once they reached Georgetown, Kevin’s dad pulled into the gas station and parked.
“I see ‘twinkle toes’ is still asleep,” Brian joked.
“I know, she’s so darn cute,” Kevin replied as he pulled the blanket back so he could rub her 
ears.
“I’m going to grab a drink from the convenience store, do you want anything?” Brian asked.
“Can I have some potato chips?” Kevin replied.
“I’ll take a large package of beef jerky,” Splinter interrupted.
“Hey, I thought you were asleep,” Brian remarked.
“I was until I heard the word snack. As you know, dragons are always on the lookout for an 
impending food emergency,” Splinter remarked.
“How can this possibly be a food emergency?” Brian asked.
“You said Waldorf was a ghost town high up in the mountains, so I doubt there will be any 
food there,” Splinter contended.
“Okay, go back to sleep and I’ll get you some jerky.”
“Hotdogs sound good too,” Splinter added.
“And some hotdogs,” Brian said with a sigh as he got out of the truck.
When he returned, he dropped the bag of snacks on the seat and then went out over to the 
gas pump to get some gas. When he got back in the truck, he noticed the bag of snacks was 
missing.
“Give it back Kevin,” Brian said as he looked over at his son.
“What, how did you know it was me and not Splinter?” he asked as he pulled the bag out 
from under the seat.
“Because Splinter would never do anything naughty if she thought there was a chance you 
would get blamed for it.” Brian replied.
“It was just a joke,” Kevin insisted.
“And there is nothing wrong with that. It’s just something I noticed about dragon behavior 
that is different from ours,” Brian remarked.
“Oh, kind of like how siblings blame each other when one of them does something wrong?” 
Kevin asked. 
“Yeah, I think dragons might be a little more evolved than us in that regard,” Brian 
admitted.
“Well, they are wonderful creatures,” Kevin said as he patted Splinter on the head.
The road heading out of Georgetown was steep and windy, but it was paved most of the 
way. Once they reached the sign that marked the town site of Silverdale, Brian shifted into four-
wheel drive and started up Leavenworth Canyon. It quickly became apparent that what the map 
on the website had shown as a 4x4 road, was actually little more than a rutted out creek bed that 
other adventure seekers had tried to drive up.
“Do you think we’ll be able to reach Waldorf?” Kevin asked as he was tossed around in his 
seat.
“As long as the road doesn’t get any worse,” his dad replied as he fought to navigate around 
large boulders, and over deep wash-outs.
When they finally reached the base of the Argentine Pass, Kevin’s dad parked next to an old 
weathered building that appeared to be all that was left of the once bustling mining town of 
Waldorf.
“Is this all that’s left?” Kevin asked after he hopped out of the truck and looked around for a 
moment.
“I’m afraid so,” Brian replied.
“At least we’re off that awful road,” Splinter remarked.
“I know, I thought my insides were going to bounce out,” Kevin joked.
“Can that really happen to a human?” Splinter asked.
“No, it’s just a saying,” Kevin smiled.
“Oh… I wasn’t sure. I know lizards can drop off their tails if they are attacked.” Splinter 
remarked.
“Can dragons do that?” Kevin asked as he gently pulled on her tail a couple of times.
“No, but I can barf up some partially digested food on you,” Splinter said kiddingly.
“Yuck,” Kevin responded with a sour looking face.
“If you think that is gross, snakes will poop on you if mess with them,” Splinter added.
“You’re full of all kinds of useful information,” Brian remarked as he walked over to them 
with the parchment in his hand.
“Any idea where the eggs are hidden?” Kevin asked as he looked over his father’s shoulder 
at the map.
“Well, the other dragon eggs were inside an abandoned mine, so that’s where we should 
look first,” his dad replied as he glanced over at the multitude of mine tailing piles that dotted the 
mountain side above them.
“Is that where the tunnels are?” Kevin asked as he looked in the same general direction as 
his father.”
“Yep, each tailing pile marks the location of an old silver mine,” Brian said as he started 
heading up the hill towards the first one.
Once they reached the first tailing pile, the three of them spread out looking for the mine’s 
entrance.
“I don’t see anything,” Splinter said after a few minutes of looking around at the barren 
landscape.
“I don’t either,” Kevin replied discouragingly.
“I think the opening caved in,” Brian remarked as he pointed to a large depression on the 
hillside just above the tailing pile. “Let’s go up to the next one, maybe it will still be open,” he 
suggested optimistically.
“There is an opening,” Splinter called out when she reached the tailing pile ahead of them.
“If it looks safe, go inside and check it out,” Brian recommended as he and Kevin rushed up 
the hill after her.
“Okay,” she replied as she disappeared into the darkness.
A few minutes later she came out shaking her head discouragingly. “I’m sorry, there wasn’t 
anything in there worth mentioning,” she reported.
“Nothing?” Kevin asked.
“No, the tunnel goes back a few hundred feet and it’s just bare rock the entire way. Whoever 
owned the mine didn’t leave anything behind,” Splinter remarked.
“Well there are a bunch more tailing piles about a half mile over to our left, or there is a 
small one further up the mountain that looks hard to reach. It’s up to you,” Brian said as he 
waited for Kevin to decide.
“If a tailing pile is larger, does that mean the mine is deeper?” Kevin asked.
“Yep, the more on the outside, the bigger it is on the inside,” his dad replied.
“Then I think we should go over to the larger tailing piles,” Kevin suggested.
“Alright, cross your fingers, and claws, that we have better luck over there,” Brian said as he 
started across the rocky slope.
When they reached the first of the large tailing piles, there was some discolored water 
flowing out from the mine entrance and Brian rushed over to examine it.
“Darn it! It’s completely blocked off about twenty feet back,” he said in a disappointed tone.
“Can we dig through it?” Kevin asked as he looked in.
“Not without heavy equipment,” Brian remarked. 
“How does that one look?” Kevin asked when he noticed that Splinter had flown over to the 
adjacent mine.
“It’s blocked off too,” she answered with a snort. Then she flew over to the next large tailing 
pile while Kevin and Brian looked on. A moment later she came back looking defeated. 
“The mines are just too old and dilapidated for us to get into them,” Brian said as he patted 
Kevin on the back affectionately.
“We never checked that little one out that was up near the top of the mountain,” Kevin 
suggested.
“It has such a little tailing pile, I don’t know if it’s worth it,” Brian replied.
“I’ll fly up there and check it out for you,” Splinter offered.
“Would you?” Kevin replied with a glimmer of hope in his voice.
“Sure, it’s easy for me. I’ll be back in two flicks of a dragon’s tail,” she joked.
“If she doesn’t find anything, I’m afraid the search is over. There aren’t any other mines 
around here,” Brian remarked.
“Are you sure... what about on the other side of the Argentine Pass?”  Kevin questioned.
“There is another mining district further south, but that’s not even on this map,” Brian said 
as he examined the parchment one last time.
“Alright, I guess the box is either lost or in one of the mines we can’t get into,” Kevin said 
when he saw Splinter flying back without seeing a box in her claws.
“Was it closed off?” Brian asked.
“Not completely. There are a couple of large rocks blocking the entrance, but I think you 
might be able to move them so Kevin and I can squeeze through,” Splinter suggested.
“That sounds a little iffy,” Brian replied.
“We have to go look,” Kevin insisted. 
“Alright, but if I think it looks unsafe I’m not letting you go in,” Brian replied.
When they reached the mine, Brian rolled the rocks out of the way. Then he shined his 
flashlight through the narrow opening so he could judge if it was safe for them to enter the mine 
or not.
“Can we go in?” Kevin asked.
“What I can see looks pretty good… but my flashlight doesn’t reach the back of the mine...”
“Dad, we’ll be careful. If it looks even the tiniest bit unsafe, we’ll turn back,” Kevin 
promised.
“I’ll be right there with him,” Splinter added. Brian peeked into the mine again and then 
shook his head. “Your mom would never approve of this.” 
“You’ll be right outside if we need anything,” Kevin pleaded.
“Alright, you can go in, but don’t touch any of the old timbers and keep your voices low. 
Any sudden movements or vibrations can cause trouble,” Brian warned. 
“Okay,” Kevin agreed as he and Splinter cautiously entered the mine. Brian anxiously 
watched as Kevin and Splinter slowly disappeared from sight.
A few minutes later, Brian heard a deep rumbling sound echo out from the depths of the 
mine. His heart skipped a beat as a cloud of dust gushed out of the opening of the mine, choking 
him. Brian wanted to shout out Kevin’s name, but he was afraid that his booming voice might 
cause a further collapse of the tunnel. It was the worst, most helpless feeling that he had ever felt. 
His flashlight was useless in the dust filled air, he couldn’t fit through the narrow opening, and 
he couldn’t even call out for his son. Brian collapsed to the ground as the fear of losing his son 
overwhelmed him. As his eyes began to tear, he saw a faint glow in the distance.
“I’m okay,” Kevin cried out. 
“Oh thank god!” Brian exclaimed as his son came rushing out of the darkness and into his 
arms.
“Splinter is badly injured,” Kevin cried as he unfolded his jacket to reveal her limp body still 
clutching a small silver box.
“What the hell happened?” Brian asked as he looked down at Splinter.
“Everything was fine until she removed the box from a small pile of rubble. I think it 
triggered a rock fall and Splinter was caught in it. Please tell me she’s going to be alright!” 
Kevin pleaded as he wiped his dusty face with his sleeve.
Brian gently lifted Splinter out of the jacket and touched her side to see if she would 
respond. Then he put his hand over his mouth and handed her back to Kevin. 
“I’m so sorry son, she’s gone.”
“Nooo!” Kevin cried out as the tears gushed down his face, falling like raindrops on her 
lifeless body. “It’s not fair!” he yelled as he closed his eyes in pain, cradling her in his arms as 
the gravity of his loss slowly set in. Then as he was about to set her down in his jacket, he felt a 
gentle licking on the underside of his chin.
“What happened?” Splinter said in an innocent voice as she looked up at his tear stained 
face.
“Oh my god, I thought I had lost you!” Kevin cried as the tears of pain suddenly turned to 
tears of joy.
“I’m fine, a little tingly inside… but I feel fine.”
“We thought you were dead,” Brian remarked as though he had just witnessed a miracle.
“I told you dragons were tough,” Splinter remarked as though nothing had happened to her.
“Dad, was she just unconscious?” Kevin asked, but Brian did not reply. He knew she had 
not been, but the alternative seemed impossible.
“Stop worrying about me,” Splinter insisted. “I just want to know if the eggs are okay?”
“I think so,” Kevin replied as he picked up the box so Splinter could unlock it with her tail. 
Then he stood as she carefully inspected each one.
“Three little Fire Dragons... alive and well,” Splinter exclaimed.
“Well, I think we have had enough excitement for one day. Who’s ready to head back 
home?” Brian asked.
“I am,” Kevin replied after he closed the lid to the box. Then he glanced over at Splinter to 
see if she wanted to be carried back to the truck, or was going to fly down to it.
“I’m a little hungry,” Splinter said as she unfolded her wings and took to the air.
“Don’t eat all the snacks,” Brian joked when he saw her heading straight for the truck. 
Splinter looked back and stuck out her tongue, then folded back her wings to glide down the hill 
even faster.
“She’s a little stinker,” Brian remarked as he started down the hill after her.
“I know, but I love her,” Kevin admitted in a low voice.
“I heard that!” Splinter announced.
Chapter 3
When Kevin got back home, he plugged his phone into the charger and called his friend 
David.
“Hello,” David answered in a friendly voice.
“Hi, guess what I have?” Kevin said with a hint of excitement.
“A new Xbox game?”
“No… my dad took Splinter and I up into the mountains and we found three more Fire 
Dragon eggs.”
“That’s amazing, I wonder how many more are out there waiting to be found?” David 
remarked.
“These are the last ones,” Kevin replied.
“How do you know that, you keep finding more?” David asked.
“I discovered a note inside the box after you brought it back, and it said there were only six 
eggs left in existence,” Kevin replied.
“Wow, they really are rare,” David remarked.
“I know, and I was hoping that you would be willing to take care of these eggs, just like last 
time?” Kevin asked.
“I would love too. Raising baby dragons is my specialty. I’m just not sure if they would be 
safe at my house?” David questioned.
“Is the Animal Control Officer still spying on your house? “Kevin asked. 
“I haven’t seen him lately, but I don’t trust him,” David admitted.
“Yeah, he’s not a nice man. I guess I could ask one of my other friends to take the eggs if 
you’re really worried about it!” Kevin said with a sigh.
“No, I’ll take them. I already know how to care for them and we can always move them if 
the Animal Control Officer comes snooping around,” David suggested.
“Really, you’ll take them?” Kevin asked.
“Yeah, I miss having the other Fire Dragons around, David admitted.
“Even Ironstone?” Kevin joked.
“Yeah, even that little trouble maker,” David chuckled. 
“When would you like me to bring the eggs over?”
“Anytime, I’ll get the basement ready for them this afternoon,” he replied.
“Do you need any help setting up?” Kevin offered.
“No, just come over when you you’re ready.
“Okay, I’ll see you in a little bit.” After Kevin got off the phone with David, he immediately 
called Emalyn.
“Hi Kevin, what are you and Splinter up to?”
“Oh the usual, hiking, exploring, and finding more dragon eggs,” he replied.
“What did you just say?” 
“We found a note with a map on it hidden inside the first box of Fire Dragon eggs. That map 
led us to a second stash of dragon eggs hidden in an abandoned mine on Mt. McClellan,” Kevin 
revealed.
“Wow, you’re so lucky,” Emalyn replied.
“Well, this last trip was a lot more dangerous. When we found the box inside the mine, it 
was partially buried in rubble. When Splinter pulled it out, it triggered a cave-in and Splinter got 
caught in it. After I freed her from the debris, I rushed her back to the surface and my dad and I 
looked her over. She wasn’t breathing and her eyes were dull and lifeless... we thought she was 
dead,” Kevin admitted as he paused for a moment to regain his composure. “Then after I held her 
for a few minutes, she just woke up in my arms and looked around as if nothing had happened.”
“Oh my gosh, it sounds like you are both lucky to be alive!” Emalyn gasped.
“I know, the rocks just barely missed me, but poor Splinter was trapped in it. I have no idea 
how she survived,” Kevin admitted.
“You know that’s the second time that she’s made a miraculous recovery under your care,” 
Emalyn observed.
“What do you mean?” Kevin asked.
“Well, do you remember the condition she was in when you found her at the base of that tree 
after being struck by lightning?”
“Yeah,” Kevin replied.
“She was half-dead that time as well. I think you’re her guardian angel, or something,” 
Emalyn suggested.
“I don’t know… Splinter always says that dragons are hard to kill every time something 
happens to her,” Kevin remarked.
“I think there’s more to it than just that,” Emalyn hinted.
“Really?” Kevin replied.
“I think so. I overheard Splinter telling her brother that you’re connected to the Fire Dragons 
in some mysterious way. She also said Luxor believes you’re tied to some dragon prophecy,” 
Emalyn confessed.
“That’s ridiculous!” Kevin scoffed.
“I’m just telling you what I heard, you can believe whatever you want,” Emalyn contended.
“I’m sorry, I didn’t mean to be rude. I just think the dragons have some silly ideas,” Kevin 
said apologetically.
“I know, Striker comes up with all kinds of crazy schemes,” Emalyn joked. “Usually they 
involve food in some way or another.”
“Speaking of that, I should probably get going. I still need to take the eggs over to David’s 
house and then it will be time to feed you-know-who dinner,” Kevin whispered into the phone.
“What’s that about dinner?” Splinter called out as she flew into the kitchen.
“Are you kidding me! There’s no way you could have heard me talking about food from that 
far way,”
“You always underestimate our keen senses,” Splinter replied.
“Yeah, but the most remarkable thing about dragons, is the size of their stomachs,” Kevin 
joked. 
“That’s a good one,” Emalyn said while laughing in the background.
“I wish you could see the look Splinter just gave me,” Kevin chuckled.
“I guess you better go feed her before she faints from hunger.”
“I will, have a good night,” Kevin replied.
“Now that you’re off the phone, can I get something to eat?” Splinter asked as she rubbed 
her stomach.
“Alright, I’ll give you something to eat before I go over to David’s house,” Kevin said as he 
opened the refrigerator door and looked inside. Splinter jumped up on the countertop and then 
paced back and forth expectantly while licking her lips in anticipation.
“How about this nice succulent carrot?” Kevin offered. Splinter glared at him and then 
shook her head from side to side.
“What about this juicy, moist, stick of celery?” Kevin snickered.
“Dragons don’t eat vegetables!” Splinter snorted.
“Oh, that’s right, I forgot about that,” Kevin replied while pretending to be surprised by her 
remark. Then he reached all the way to the back of the refrigerator and pulled out a forgotten 
piece of bread that looked like the heel of an old shoe.
“Are you kidding me!” Splinter cried in a huff. “The hot dogs are right in front of you! I can 
see them from here. You actually had to reach over them to get those other yucky things!”
“He-he,” Kevin laughed as threw the bread into the trash and then pulled out the package of 
hot dogs for her.
“Thank you,” Splinter begrudgingly replied as she angrily bit into the first one.
“You’re welcome,” Kevin chuckled, before going upstairs to retrieve the box of dragon 
eggs.
When he returned, he immediately noticed the empty hot dog wrapper tossed down on the 
floor next to the trashcan.
“You ate them all?” he asked in a surprised tone.
“Oops, was I not supposed to?” Splinter said in an innocent tone.
“Well, at least put the evidence in the trash,” Kevin scolded.
“Alright,” Splinter replied.
“Are you coming with me to David’s?”
“No, I’m going to take a quick nap before dinner,” she yawned.
“You can’t possibly be hungry after all those hotdogs,” Kevin said in disbelief.
“I will be after I have a refreshing nap,” Splinter replied.
“Wow… I’ll be back in a little bit,” Kevin said as he headed out the door.
Once Kevin was gone, Splinter went up to his room and curled up on the top bunk of the 
bed. After arranging the pillow to her liking, she closed her eyes and fell asleep. She instantly 
started dreaming about growing up with her brother near Wellington Lake. Back then, they 
would camouflage themselves and go down near the campsites looking for unsuspecting 
campers. If they found one, they would take turns distracting the humans by knocking something 
over near the edge of their campsite, while the other one would swoop down and grab whatever 
tasty food was left unguarded. Then they would fly back up to Castle Mountain, and share the 
bounty.
In her next dream, she saw Luxor, and he was telling her about some prophetic vision that he 
had had years ago. “The law of dragons will be broken, but the blood spilt on the stone of 
punishment will be from another. When a young dragon’s life hangs in the balance, the one with 
power shall be revealed. A forgotten descendant from the dark times will reignite the fire of 
destiny.” Splinter woke from the dream feeling uncertain and confused. She never liked Luxor’s 
premonitions because they were always dark and cryptic. As she tried to purge the awful dream 
from her memory, it dawned on her that part of what he had foretold, might have come true. “I 
did break the law of dragons, and Kevin did shed his blood on the stone of punishment… but I 
never came close to dying,” Splinter scoffed. Then she felt a shiver run down to her tail as she 
thought about the day the mine caved in. “Let’s see… I helped Kevin slide the rocks off of the 
box, and after I picked it up there was a thunderous roar and I was knocked to the ground. I 
remember feeling the air being pressed out of my chest as I struggled to get free. I know Kevin 
was calling my name, but each time he did so, it seemed like he was getting further and further 
away from me. I saw a bright light and then the next thing I remember was a warm tingly 
sensation. When I opened my eyes, I saw Kevin’s sad face and I kissed him on the chin to 
comfort him… did Kevin save my life?” she thought to herself. Then she suddenly realized that 
Kevin didn’t just save her, he actually brought her back from the brink of death as Luxor had 
predicted. “Oh my gosh, Kevin is a Dragon Wizard!” Splinter blurted out in excitement.
Chapter 4
When Kevin returned from David’s house, Splinter rushed down to greet him.
“Hi, you must be really hungry,” Kevin said as she flew into his arms and started licking his 
face.
“Dinner can wait!” Splinter announced.
“What?” Kevin interrupted in astonishment.
“While you were gone, I had an epiphany. You’re a Dragon Wizard!” Splinter exclaimed 
with elation.
“I don’t think so,” Kevin replied.
“No, it’s true. Remember when I told you about the great dragon Draig Gogh, and how the 
child he saved became a Dragon Wizard when he grew up?” 
“Yes, I remember that story, and it seemed like you didn’t really believe it when you told it 
to me,” Kevin replied.
“Well, I admit it did seem pretty far fetched that a human could heal animals and dragons, 
but something remarkable has happened that changed my mind,” Splinter revealed.
“Okay, what’s that?” Kevin asked suspiciously.
“You healed me when I was struck by lightning, and you brought me back from the brink of 
death after the rocks crushed me in the mine,” Splinter insisted.
“I didn’t heal you, you were just knocked unconscious,” Kevin asserted.
“You did heal me, I felt it on the inside,” Splinter argued. Then after a brief pause she said, 
“If you and your dad thought I was unconscious, then what were you two crying about when I 
opened my eyes?”
“I prayed you weren’t dead, but that doesn’t mean I’m a Dragon Wizard,” Kevin replied.
“Kevin, it’s more than just those two things,” Splinter declared. “Remember when you 
showed me the book about your ancestry, and some of them were from Wales?”
“Yeah,” Kevin replied as he tried to follow her reasoning.
“That’s where the Dragon Wizard lived. I think it’s a safe bet that he was responsible for 
taking the Fire Dragon eggs in hopes of keeping the species alive,” Splinter concluded.
“I think you’re right about that, but even if he did take the eggs, how does that connect his 
family to mine?” Kevin questioned.
“Well, the boxes have Celtic motifs on them so we know they came from the same area 
where the Dragon Wizard lived. The boxes were also crafted from silver, so obviously they were 
made by a silversmith from that region. We also know the boxes were designed specifically for 
the eggs, so it had to be someone who knew what was going to be put inside the boxes. Given the 
fact that dragons were feared by most everyone back then, I believe the Dragon Wizard was the 
silversmith who made them. If he was a silversmith, there is a good chance that he passed his 
trade down to his sons, and so on,” Splinter concluded.
“Okay, that makes sense. I know that there were a few miners in my family around the turn 
of the century,” Kevin admitted.
“Your dad said that when silver was discovered in Waldorf the first ores were sent to 
Swansea, Wales for refining. I doubt that discovery went unnoticed by the local silversmiths over 
there. I would bet my dragon skin that some of them decided to come to the new world to see if 
they could strike it rich,” Splinter said confidently.
“My last name is of Welsh origin… perhaps there is a connection,” Kevin admitted.
“So you’re a Dragon Wizard,” Splinter exclaimed while nudging him with her head.
“No, but something Emalyn said to me makes more sense,” Kevin replied.
“What’s that?”
“She said I was your guardian, and I kind of like the sound of that,” Kevin confessed with a 
smile.
“The wizard was a guardian too,” Splinter remarked.
“So, what got you thinking about all this stuff?” Kevin asked.
“Something Luxor told me a few years ago,” Splinter answered, being somewhat vague 
about the event.
“I should have known that he was involved,” Kevin sighed.
“He may not always be the most personable of dragons, but Luxor is wise and he sometimes 
sees events in the future,” Splinter revealed.
“Have you actually witnessed that?” Kevin asked.
“I have, but please don’t ask me about it right now. I will share the story with you when the 
time is right,” Splinter replied.
“Is it about me?” Kevin persisted.
“No, it’s about someone with great power. Someone who believes in himself, and can heal 
injured dragons… but since you don’t believe in such things, it can’t be about you,” Splinter 
responded.
Chapter 5
David’s house was bursting with excitement the day the Fire Dragon eggs hatched. This 
time the litter had two girl dragons and one boy. The boy dragon had a deep ruby red body with 
yellow and orange wings, so David named him Firewing. The two girl dragons were a nearly 
identical sky blue color with the only difference being that one had a star-like marking on her 
forehead while the other did not. Emalyn named the one with the mark on her forehead Starfire, 
and Kevin named the other dragon Luna, after a character in one of his favorite childhood books.
After everyone agreed on the names, Splinter flew over and landed in Kevin’s lap so he 
could pet her.
“Why are you so particular about dragon names?” Kevin asked.
“My birth name was awful,” Splinter replied. “I just want to make sure the Fire Dragons 
don’t have to go through life with ridiculous names.”
“Is that why you never told us your real name when you got your memory back?” Kevin 
asked.
“Yep, I like the name Splinter better than my other name,” she admitted.
“You can always change it to something else if you prefer,” Kevin suggested.
“Nope, it means a lot to me that you and Emalyn gave me that name. Plus, I am the first 
dragon to have ever been named by a human,” Splinter exclaimed with pride.
“Are you ever going to tell us what your birth name was?” Kevin asked.
“Nope, and my brother will keep it a secret too, if he knows what’s good for him,” Splinter 
threatened.
“I’m not telling,” Striker replied.
“What if we guess it?” David asked as he picked up Firewing and offered him a bottle of 
formula.
“I’m never going to tell you,” Splinter replied.
“Alright, we’ll let it go,” David said as he picked up Luna and started feeding her.
“They sure do like you,” Splinter remarked when the baby dragons just fell asleep in 
David’s arms after they finished eating.
“They’re such cute little guys,” David replied affectionately. 
“Are you going to be able to let them go?” Kevin joked.
“Yeah, I’ll be strong just like last time. Are we going to release them with the others down 
near Lake Powell?” David asked as he looked over at Splinter.
“I don’t know, what do you think we should do with them Kevin?” Splinter remarked.
“Whatever you think is best,” he replied, sensing that she was testing him for some reason.
“Perhaps we should offer them to a zoo,” Splinter suggested in an effort to get Kevin to 
reveal what he felt was best for them.
“No, we can’t do that! The Fire Dragons have to be brought together so they can cross-breed 
and have baby dragons of their own once they mature,” Kevin insisted. Splinter looked up at 
Kevin and then whispered, “Dragon Wizard” just loud enough for him to hear it.
“I don’t know what you two are teasing each other about, but if the Fire Dragons start to 
breed and have babies, they’re going to be discovered at some point. I think we need to come up 
with a plan to protect them,” David suggested.
“David has good point,” Splinter acknowledged. “Unlike us, the Fire Dragons can’t 
camouflage themselves and they’re going to have to spread out from the lake once their numbers 
increase.”
“Not to mention the whole fire breathing thing,” Emalyn added.
“They can learn to control their fire, but you’re right about them not being the subtlest of 
creatures,” Splinter admitted.
“I have an idea… but you’re not going to like it.” Kevin suggested.
“What is it?” Splinter asked.
“I’m sure everyone remembers back when the Animal Control Officer accused David of 
breaking the law by harboring an exotic pet. The Sheriff even threatened my dad with fines if he 
was caught breaking the Endangered Species Act,” Kevin recalled.
“How does that help us?” Splinter asked.
“Well, I did some checking online, and dragons could qualify for protection under the right 
circumstances,” Kevin suggested hesitantly.
“For that to work, humans would have to know of our existence, not just you guys, but all 
humans. The only way that’s going to work is if some poor dragon comes forward so scientists 
can poke, prod, and do goodness knows what else to it,” Splinter remarked.
“I told you, you weren’t going to like it,” Kevin confessed.
“I’ll do it if you’re sure that it will lead to our protection,” Splinter sighed.
“No, you can’t trust the other humans!” Striker yelled out. “There has to be another way!”
“I trust Kevin with my life, and if he thinks this will protect the Fire Dragons, then I’ll do 
it,” Splinter replied.
“You don’t owe them anything, they brought about their own destruction and forced us into 
exile,” Striker insisted.
“Kevin is my guardian, and he will protect me,” Splinter insisted.
“She’s right… and you already know I will do everything I can to keep her safe,” Kevin 
promised.
“I still object!” Striker declared as he flew into Emalyn’s arms for comfort.
“Kevin is not just my friend, and my protector, he’s also a Dragon Wizard!” Splinter 
revealed.
“Splinter! You know I don’t like to be called that,” Kevin replied.
“Is that true? Are you a Dragon Wizard?” Striker demanded. Kevin looked away without 
responding.
“Does he have the gift of healing?” Striker asked as he shifted his gaze to Splinter.
“He does, and I know for a fact that he has healed me twice,” she replied.
“I saw it too,” Emalyn added. “When he picked up Splinter from under the tree, she couldn’t 
even move her head. By the time we got back to the camp, she had almost completely recovered 
and Kevin was holding her the whole time.”
“Perhaps this is the time to act,” Striker said in a reluctant tone.
“I don’t know if I had anything to do with Splinter’s recovery at the lake or the mine, but I 
can promise to do everything in my power to keep her from being harmed,” Kevin insisted.
“I hope that’s enough,” Striker remarked.
“I can help Kevin research the law inside and out so we know exactly what’s needed to get 
dragons on the protected list,” David offered.
“I will help in any way that I can,” Emalyn said as she looked down at Striker to see if he 
approved.
“If my sister is crazy enough to do this, then I’m not going try and to stop her, but I still 
think it’s a bad idea,” Striker stated in a disapproving tone.
“I want to do this,” Splinter remarked.
“Fine, you have made up your mind, and I have made up mine,” Striker snorted.
Chapter 6
Kevin and David spent the next few days researching the requirements of the Endangered 
Species Act. Once they felt confident in being able to meet the requirements of the law, they 
formulated a plan to minimize the risks to Splinter. Then they asked Kevin’s dad for his help.
“I think you boys have done a great job looking into this,” Brian acknowledged. “My only 
concern is if things don’t go as planned, then David’s Fire Dragons might be at risk. Think about 
the first place that the Animal Control Officer is going to go if he finds out David is involved in 
this?” 
“I don’t have to be there when you take Splinter to the authorities,” David offered. “I would 
actually prefer it if I wasn’t.”
“Alright, I just didn’t want you to be left out of the plan you helped design,” Brian 
remarked.
“It’s fine, you guys go without me,” David insisted.
“Are you sure?” Kevin asked one last time.
“Yeah, I’ll head back home and you can call me if I need to take the Fire Dragons 
somewhere else.”
“Okay, I’ll let you know what happens as soon as we get to Denver,” Kevin said as he 
climbed into the front seat of his dad’s truck.
“Good luck,” David said as they drove off.
“Are you sure you want to go through with this?’ Kevin asked Splinter as he patted her on 
the head.
“I am,” Splinter replied with a brave face.
“Okay,” Kevin said as he held her in his lap. 
Once they reached the address on the GPS, Brian parked the truck in the large lot that stood 
in the shadow of a tall imposing brick building. As they walked towards the entrance, Kevin 
looked up at the large bronze plaque mounted above the doorway.
“This is it,” Brian said as he paused at the entrance. Then he looked over at Splinter who 
was tucked inside Kevin’s coat. “We’re at the U.S. Department of Fish and Game, last chance to 
turn back.”
“Keep going,” Splinter replied with a gulp.
“Okay, then cross your fingers and let’s hope this works,” Brian remarked as they headed 
into the reception area.
“How may I help you?” a tall slender dark haired man asked.
“Hi, my son has discovered a new species of reptile and he would like to submit an 
application for its protection under the Endangered Species Act,” Brian replied.
“Did you bring in a picture of the species in question?” the man asked in a mundane voice.
“No, but we did bring a live specimen for you to examine,” Brian offered.
“Okay, show me the lizard, snake, or whatever it is that you believe to be unique,” the man 
said as though no one had ever brought in a previously undiscovered animal. 
“Go ahead and show him,” Brian said as he looked over at his son.
“Alright,” Kevin replied. Then he opened his coat, and Splinter flew up onto the counter and 
landed a few feet away from the man. The moment their eyes locked, he screamed, “oh my god, 
it’s a dragon!” in a high pitched voice, and then fainted behind the counter.
“Well, that was unexpected,” Brian said as he rang the bell to call out another employee to 
assist them. After waiting several minutes without seeing anyone else, he rang the bell again.
“What should we do?” Kevin asked after waiting a few more minutes.
“I guess there’s no one else in this office today,” Brian said after peering over the counter at 
the still unconscious receptionist.
“Is it a holiday?” Kevin asked.
“I don’t think so, the door was open and they had a receptionist working here,” Brian 
replied.
“Should we try and wake him up?” 
“No, you can get in big trouble if you touch someone without their permission.”
“Can we go somewhere else?” Kevin asked.
“It’s too late to reach the District office up in Cheyenne before they close, but we could go 
there tomorrow. Maybe they won’t be such a bunch of lilies,” his dad remarked before heading 
out.
When they got back home, Kevin went to the kitchen and got Splinter something to eat. He 
knew that food always made her feel better, and it had been a stressful day.
“Thanks,” Splinter said after she finished the bacon-flavored treat. “Can I have another?” 
“Sure, Kevin replied, but before he had time to get it, there was a loud knocking at the front 
door.
“Dad, someone’s at the door,” Kevin called out.
“See who it is,” his dad replied. 
“Okay.” When Kevin looked through the peephole his heart jumped in his chest.
“It’s an Animal Control Officer,” Kevin said nervously.
“I’ll be right there,” his dad said as he quickly ran downstairs. “Uh-oh, I think that’s the 
same guy from last year’s dragon switch-a-roo.”
“What’s he doing at our house?” Kevin asked in an increasingly panicked tone.
“I don’t know, let me see what he wants,” Brian said as he cracked the door open just 
enough to say, “Can I help you?” in an unaccommodating tone.
“Sir, I have a warrant to search your house for exotic endangered animals,” the officer said 
in a snide voice.
“On what grounds?” Brian demanded.
“I don’t have to disclose that information to you, but since you and your son think you’re so 
clever, I’m going to tell you what the warrant is for,” the man remarked.
“Is it for stuffed animals or costume wearing dogs?” Brian interrupted.
“Oh good, you do remember me, because I surely remember you, and how you fooled that 
Sheriff. Well, this time you’re not getting off so easy… I have in my possession a picture of your 
truck entering the Fish and Game parking lot in Denver less than two hours ago. I also have an 
affidavit from an eye witness claiming you are in possession of an unidentified reptile species,” 
the Animal Control Officer insisted.
“I’m not going to give you permission to search my house,” Brian replied.
“I don’t need your permission! I have a court ordered search warrant! If you don’t 
immediately comply, I will have you arrested and charged with obstruction of justice!” the 
officer insisted.
“Sorry, you’re not coming in!” Brian said as he slammed the door in the officer’s face and 
then locked it.
“We both know you’re harboring an endangered species in there,” the man yelled through 
the door. “…but not for long… the Sheriff is on his way!”
“Threaten all you like, I’m not giving up without a fight… and when the Sheriff gets here, 
tell him not to bother with the tear gas. I have enough gas masks for my whole family!” Brian 
announced.
“You’re not as clever as you think!” the Animal Control Officer remarked.
“Neither are you!” Brian replied. Then he watched through the peephole as the officer 
turned and angrily walked back to his van and kicked the tire several times in frustration.
“What’s going to happen now?” Kevin asked timidly.
“I don’t know, but Splinter is part of our family, and I’m not letting that jerk just come in 
and take her. He’s not a nice guy and I don’t think she would be safe with him,” Brian insisted.
A few moments later, the wailing of sirens echoed down the street as an armada of patrol 
cars stopped in front of their house. Brian cautiously lifted the window shade and then shook his 
head after looking out.
“How bad is it?” Kevin asked as he held Splinter in his trembling arms.
“They’re blocking off our street so no one can get in,” he replied in a disparaging tone.
“Is there anyone we can call for help?” Kevin asked.
“Call your mom and see if she has any ideas,” Brian suggested.
Kevin dialed the number several times, but the call didn’t go through. “I think my phone is 
broken,” Kevin exclaimed after a couple more attempts.
“Let me try mine,” Brian said as he went into the office. Then after a few moments he 
returned shaking his head. “I think they’re blocking our phone service.”
“Why would they do that?” Kevin asked.
“Whenever there’s a standoff, they try and isolate the people involved. That way they can 
control the situation, and force them to give up,” Brian remarked with an unhappy look on his 
face.
“So, what are we going to do?” Kevin asked in a frightened voice.
“I don’t know son, sometimes even adults don’t have all the answers. For now, I think we 
should just remain calm and see what they do. There might be a positive way out of this yet,” he 
said optimistically.
“I could give myself up?” Splinter offered.
“No!” Kevin objected. “You heard what my dad said about the Animal Control Officer, he is 
not a nice guy. He just wants to get even with us for fooling him.”
“I could camouflage myself and then you could let the officer in… he might not find me, 
and then he would leave us alone.” Splinter suggested.
“That’s too risky,” Kevin insisted as he looked over at his dad.
“I agree. The guy is trained to find and capture wild animals. He might even have a search 
dog at his disposal. Can you elude a trained dog?” Brian asked.
“Not inside a house. If a dog caught my scent back at Wellington Lake, I would take to the 
trees to lose it,” Splinter replied.
“Then let’s not chance it. I’m not sure the Sheriff is going to be very eager to help the 
Animal Control Officer after last year’s fiasco, so let’s just sit tight and see what their next move 
is. If you want to turn on the TV to help pass the time, that might help,” Brian suggested.
“Okay,” Kevin replied, as he and Splinter headed into the living room.
After a few minutes of flipping through the channels, Kevin noticed the local station had a 
breaking news bulletin that read: ‘Standoff in St. Vrain’ in bright red lettering. Kevin 
immediately turned up the volume so he could hear what they were saying.
“The Sheriff Department has informed us that a routine animal control investigation has 
turned into a standoff with the homeowner. We’ll be right back with more on that breaking story 
after these messages,” the reporter announced.
“Hey dad, we’re on the news!” Kevin called out.
“I’ll be there in a minute, I think they cut off our internet access,” his dad replied sounding 
perturbed.
“Dad, it’s back on…” Kevin remarked as the reporter started talking again.
“This just in, a concerned viewer has uploaded a remarkable video to our website that defies 
belief. Stay tuned for this unbelievable twist to the Standoff in St. Vrain.”
“What’s going on?” his dad asked as he sat down on the couch next to him.
“I’m not sure, but the news said someone uploaded a video about the standoff, and then they 
cut to another commercial break without showing it,” Kevin replied in a frustrated tone.
“Sorry about that folks, we just finished having our experts review the video to make sure it 
wasn’t a fake before we broadcasted it. So, without further delay here it is,” the reporter said as 
though he was almost as excited to watch it as the audience would be.
“Hello, my name is Emalyn, and I wanted to make sure that the truth about the stand-off gets 
told. First off, the animal in question is a dragon, and yes they do exist. How do I know, because 
my friend Kevin and I have been taking care of two Pygmy Dragons,” Emalyn exclaimed. Then 
she pulled the blanket off her lap to reveal Striker. “This is my dragon Striker, and he would like 
to tell you more about his species.”
“I know that if you are watching this video you are probably shocked to find out that 
dragons are real and that we can even speak your language. If you can suspend your disbelief for 
a few moments, I would like to ask for your help. Dragons have been around for as long as 
humans have been. Unfortunately, during the medieval period one race of dragons, called Fire 
Dragons, came into conflict with the humans of that time. The result was that that race of dragon 
was killed off. Because of that tragedy, the two remaining species of dragons went into hiding to 
protect themselves. Over time, the tales about dragons transformed from legends to myths, and 
humans eventually forgot we ever existed. In the meantime, we have been living peacefully 
along side your kind for a thousand years, while we watched your species advance and grow. 
Now that humans have learned to revere other living creatures, the day has come for our two 
great species to live together. I know that dragons were once feared by humans, but I believe we 
can coexist. Even the species of dragon that once caused the great conflict, have been living 
peacefully in a remote area of the southwest. Those large fire breathing dragons pose no greater 
threat to your kind than any other animal that might defend itself when threatened. In fact, the 
only Fire Dragons in existence have been raised by humans, and they love and respect them. 
Dragons are sentient creatures that form deep and lasting relationships with one another just like 
humans, but there are no laws protecting us from being captured, killed, or experimented on. As I 
speak, my sister who lives with her loving human family is in grave danger. The authorities have 
surrounded the house that she lives in and they want to take her away. Please contact the U.S. 
Department of Fish and Game and ask them to add dragons to the list of endangered species 
before it’s too late. It’s the only way to save my sister and protect our rare and unique species 
from the few bad people that might want to harm us,” Striker said as he lowered his head in 
sadness.
“There you have it folks, the first ever genuine footage of a real dragon, brought to you 
exclusively by this station,” the reporter exclaimed. Kevin muted the volume so he could see 
what his dad’s reaction was to the video.
“Do you think people will actually call in and demand that dragons be protected?” he asked 
in a hopeful tone.
“I don’t know Kevin. If enough people push for it, maybe it will happen,” Brian replied.
“Did you see my brother?” Splinter remarked. “I’m so proud of him.” 
“I know, Striker and Emalyn really came through for us,” Kevin acknowledged.
“Well, I think it’s going to be a long night, why don’t you and Splinter head upstairs, and I’ll 
keep an eye on the activities outside,” Brian suggested.
“You’ll let us know if anything happens, right?” Kevin asked.
“I will, but now that the video is out, they’ll probably leave us alone until someone higher 
up decides what to do about it,” Brian remarked.
“Okay dad, I’ll see you in the morning,” Kevin replied.
Chapter 7
As the night wore on, Brian got up every few hours and peeked out the window to see what 
was happening outside. At one point he thought the crisis might be over when the Animal 
Control Officer got into his van and drove off. Unfortunately, his hopes faded when the officer 
returned in a truck with several cages strapped to it.
“What’s going on?” Kevin asked in a sleepy voice as he wandered downstairs to see what 
was happening.
“You’re up early,” his dad replied.
“What time is it?” Kevin muttered.
“5:00 am. The Animal Control guy left for a few hours and then returned with a bunch of 
cages,” his dad said as he pulled the blinds partially open so Kevin could see what he was talking 
about.
“He must think we have a bunch of dragons in here,” Kevin frowned.
“Yeah, he’s really holding a grudge,” Brian replied.
“He’s not going to give up, is he?” Kevin asked.
“Unfortunately not,” Brian acknowledged.
“What’s he doing now?” Kevin asked, as they watched the man get out of the truck and 
walk over to a group of Sheriffs dressed in tactical gear.
“I don’t know… but I think it would be best if you go up to your room and stay with 
Splinter,” Brian said in a nervous tone.
“Alright,” Kevin replied, sensing the danger in his dad’s voice.
After Kevin was gone, Brian unlocked the window and slid it open just enough so he could 
hear what the men were talking about.
“There is at least one dangerous animal in there that attacked a government employee! Now 
do your job and arrest that man and his boy so I can capture it!” the Animal Control Officer said 
in a demanding voice.
“You don’t have the authority to order my deputies around!” the Sheriff replied sharply.
“Oh yes I do,” the Animal Control Officer shouted. “I have a court order to search that 
house. The homeowner has refused to comply with my request and threatened me… so secure 
the premises or I’ll report your obstinance to the district attorney!” the Animal Control Officer 
shouted back.
Brian slowly closed the window when he saw one of the Sheriff Deputies retrieve a battering 
ram from the trunk of his patrol car. “Here they come…” he muttered under his breath as the 
officers started walking towards the house. A split second later a blinding flash of white light lit 
up the street, and Brian instinctively ducked below the window.
“What was that?” Kevin yelled from his room.
“I don’t know…” his dad replied as he slowly lifted his head to peak out the window. 
“There’s a wall of fire stretching up and down our street!”
“Fire?” Splinter exclaimed in disbelief as she flew downstairs as fast as her wings would 
carry her. Kevin ran after her, and when he reached the window, they both gasped as a large red 
dragon landed on their front porch.
“It’s Draig!” Kevin shouted out in amazement. When Brian saw the Deputies retreating, he 
unlocked the front door and let Kevin poke his head out so he could talk to Draig.
“What are you doing here?” Kevin asked with a look of disbelief.
“David saw Emalyn and Striker on the news, and he called a friend of his that was 
vacationing at Lake Powell. It took some persuading, but he convinced his friend to come find us 
and ask for our help,” Draig remarked.
“Where are the other dragons?”
“Ironstone is over at David’s house, and Esmeralda is at Emalyn’s. We wanted to make sure 
that all of you were safe,” Draig replied.
“I can’t thank you enough for coming,” Kevin said as he reached through the opening to pat 
Draig on the tail.
“We had to come, you’re our friends,” Draig insisted. Then he turned towards the street to 
make sure the authorities were keeping their distance.
“Well, I don’t think people are going to be able to deny the existence of dragons now,” 
Kevin declared, as the morning sun reflected off Draig’s dark red scales.
“That’s for sure,” Splinter said as she poked her head out of the door to see Draig.
Further down the street, Brian noticed that one of the news crews had knocked over part of 
the barricade while filming Drag’s epic arrival, and the Sheriff was pushing them back.
“Hey Kevin, you might want to roll the TV over here and turn it on, there’s a news crew 
outside filming this,” Brian suggested.
“Alright,” Kevin replied.
The news channel was still covering the stand off with even more breaking news banners 
flashing across the screen in red and white lettering.
“Well folks we just arrived at the scene and, if there was any question about the validity of 
the video we aired yesterday, the proof is sitting on that porch in front of us!” the reporter said as 
his cameraman zoomed in for a close up of Draig. “Let’s see what some of the bystanders have 
to say about this unprecedented event… Sir, what’s your reaction? ‘I can’t believe it, I wish I had 
a pet dragon.’ How about you ma’am, what’s your impression of the dragons’ plea for help? ‘I 
think we should protect these magnificent creatures.’ How about you sir, ‘All I can say is, wow!’ 
Wow indeed!” the reporter added with emphasis. “We’ll be right back with more dragon 
coverage in just a few minutes.”
“Well, I think we have everyone’s attention,” Brian joked as he peeked out the window at 
the ever-growing crowd of spectators.
“Dad, it looks like some government official is about to talk on the TV,” Kevin said, not 
wanting his dad to miss it.
“Good morning, my name is Mark Freeman and I am the Director of the United States 
Department of Fish and Wildlife. Our agency is responsible for the management of plants and 
animals that inhabit the nations 150 million acres of protected land. Each year, thousands of new 
species are discovered without any fanfare. Every once in a while the media runs an article about 
a particularly interesting new plant or animal that comes along. However, this is the first time in 
my career that a discovery has warranted a national press conference and required our immediate 
action. So, without further ado, I am pleased to announce the addition of three previously 
unknown species of reptiles to the Endangered Species List. Effective immediately, Pigmy 
Dragons, Fire Dragons, and Water Dragons are all protected by law. Due to the uniqueness of 
these creatures, and the special relationships some of them have formed with their human 
counterparts, we have added a special provision to the law allowing them to stay with their 
human families. We ask that all other dragons remain on protected lands and waters until we 
have an opportunity to establish more inclusive guidelines in the coming months. Now, I will be 
happy to take a few questions about this historic event,” the director said as he looked out over 
the crowd of journalists.
“You mentioned that there will be some new guidelines established in the near future, can 
you explain what that means?” a reporter asked.
“Yes. It means we are granting them immediate protection under the law, but we still need 
to evaluate their range, numbers, and habitat requirements to determine the best way to protect 
them,” the director replied.
“You said they will be allowed to cohabitate with humans, what was the reasoning for that 
special provision?” another reporter asked.
“Since dragons have shown they are sentient, caring creatures, they should be allowed to 
remain with the families that have been caring for them if they choose to,” the director 
responded.
“A Fire Dragon has threatened several Sheriff Officers who were attempting to serve a 
search warrant. What risk do they pose to our society, and how are we going respond to that 
threat?” a reporter asked.
“Alligators, rattle snakes, scorpions, and hundreds of other wild creatures pose a risk to 
humans everyday. In nearly every case, those creatures are harmless unless they are threatened, 
or if someone is careless around them. As long as dragons prove to be no more dangerous to us 
than any of those other animals, they will remain under our protection. I would also like to point 
out, that just like us, they have the right to defend themselves and the ones they love from harm,” 
the director emphasized.
“I still think they pose a threat,” the reporter insisted.
“Any wild animal, if provoked, poses a threat. Humans even pose a threat to one another. As 
long as dragons aren’t the ones doing the provoking, I see no reason to fear them, or to deny 
them the protections they deserve. On that final note, I would like to thank a special boy named 
David. He went out of his way to contact me and share with me his comprehensive knowledge of 
dragons,” the director concluded.
“Can you believe it, dragons are protected by law!” Kevin exclaimed as he picked up 
Splinter and held her in his arms.
“It’s amazing!” Splinter said as she nudged Kevin affectionately.
“I know, and we owe your brother, Emalyn, and David a huge thank you!” Kevin said as he 
set Splinter back down.
“The authorities are packing up and leaving,” Brian announced with a sigh of relief. Kevin 
and Splinter rushed over to the window to see their departure.
“Good riddance,” Splinter remarked. Then as she was about to turn away, she noticed the 
Animal Control Officer was yelling at one of the Sheriff Deputies and waving the warrant in his 
face. “What’s he doing?” she asked nervously.
“Get down!” Brian yelled out when the Animal Control Officer grabbed the pistol from the 
Deputy’s holster. A split second later shots rang out and they heard an unmistakable yelp, 
followed by a loud thud on the front porch.
“Oh no!” Kevin cried out when the shooting stopped. Then he rushed to the front door and 
saw Draig laying there motionless. Kevin immediately ran over to him and said, “I’m so sorry,” 
over and over as the tears streamed down his face. Draig lifted his head as if to say something 
reassuring to him, and then collapsed back down before uttering a word. Kevin looked out at the 
street with rage, and through watery eyes, he could see the Animal Control Officer being taken 
into custody. But it wasn’t the justice he deserved, and Kevin shook his fists at him in frustration 
and rage. Then he knelt down next to Draig and closed his eyes. 
“You can save him,” Splinter whispered into his ear. Kevin wiped the tears from his face 
and then placed both his hands around Draig’s lifeless body. 
“Please don’t die,” he said in a soft voice. Then he felt a warmth running down his arms, and 
he pressed his ear against Draig’s chest. A faint flutter slowly turned into a single beat, followed 
by another, and another. Kevin heard the air rushing into Draig’s chest as he lifted his head up 
high.
“I feel kind of funny,” Draig said as he burped up a fireball.
“That’s because you almost died,” Kevin said as he hugged him with all his might.
“What?” Draig replied, seeming unaware of the tragic event.
“You big dummy, you were just shot, and Kevin saved your life,” Splinter said as she poked 
him with her tail.
“How did you do that?” Draig asked as he looked at Kevin in disbelief.
“Because I’m a Dragon Wizard,” Kevin admitted in a soft voice.
“I told you,” Splinter leaned over and whispered in his ear.
“Thanks for believing in me,” Kevin whispered back.
An Interview with a Dragon
The following are some frequently asked questions about dragons that Splinter has kindly 
taken the time to answer:
Question #1 “How long do dragons live?”
“It is not uncommon for us to see two centuries before we pass, and as a rule larger dragons 
live longer than smaller ones.”
Question #2 “What do dragons eat?”
“Like most reptiles, we are carnivores, but like humans, we can eat other things if we have 
to.”
Question #3 “How do you know how to speak our language?”
“Dragons learn and use whatever language is spoken by the humans living near them to 
reduce the chance of being detected. Our camouflage might prevent us from being seen, but it 
does not prevent us from be overheard. When there aren’t any humans around, we use Draken to 
communicate with each other… it is the root to the language you call Latin.”
Question #6 “Humans and Fire Dragons clashed in the middle ages, is there any chance that 
the return of Fire Dragons might cause another conflict?”
“Both of our species have matured a lot since the middle-ages, and though some dragons 
and some humans will always break the law, we should be able to resolve those issues if we 
work together.”
Question #7 “How do Fire Dragons create fire?”
“Inside a Fire Dragon’s mouth there are two separate glands, one produces a flammable 
liquid and the other secretes a pyrophoric substance that spontaneously combust when it hits the 
air. The Bombardier Beetle uses the same defense mechanism to protect itself from predators by 
spraying a super-heated toxic cloud at the would-be attacker.
Question #8 “The boy you live with is called the Dragon Wizard by other dragons, what’s 
the meaning of that title, and why was he presented with a sword by an elder dragon?”
“It was prophesized that a descendant of the Great Dragon Wizard would mark the return of 
Fire Dragons, and since Kevin fulfilled that prophecy, he was given one of our most cherished 
artifacts, the Sword of Honor. It was a gift given by a soldier named Tegan to a dragon named 
Draig Goch as a symbol of their friendship in a time when dragons and humans were rarely 
friends. Now that our two great species have rejoined as one, the sword shall serve as a reminder 
of that special friendship, and symbolize the many friendships that are yet to come…”
About the Series
The Dragon Adventure Series was inspired by my son and his room filled with dragon art, 
books, and posters honoring the beloved creatures. In addition, my family’s surname is of Welsh 
origin, so it seemed fitting to incorporate the Welsh dragon, Y Ddraig Goch into the storyline. I 
changed his name to Draig Gogh to make is easier for young readers to pronounce, and then 
added a host of friends to make the adventure come alive.
The rich mining history and unique geographical locations used in this series are inspired by 
real events and locations in Colorado, Wales, and Ireland. Some of the location names have been 
changed to fit the story, but anyone looking at a map should be able to identify their origin.
My hope is that this series will ignite the imaginations of readers young and old, along with 
anyone else who loves dragons. If you have any comments or questions, please feel free to 
contact me at the email address below.
Thanks again,
Ben L. Hughes
Email: kelso1900@yahoo.com <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Prologue
The Imperial City of Rome
December 21st, 47 CE
The cloaked woman pressed two dozen denarii into the guard’s sweaty palm and slipped into the 
shadows. One by one, her torch lit upon cells holding imprisoned men awaiting trial, or more 
likely, death. The stench of desperation and all things foul assailed her nostrils and she covered 
her nose with the side of her hood.
Maddened wails echoed across the cold stone walls, falling on deaf ears. Condemned souls 
pled for freedom. Others begged for an end to their misery. These wretched creatures would find 
no such relief from her; Helena’s mission tonight had but one purpose. She sought a man who 
should by all accounts be dead—his blood spilt and swept away along with the fetid sand of the 
arena.
Instead, Lucius Sempronius Asper lay unconscious in the farthest and darkest chamber, 
sprawled over a crude mat on the floor. Alive, she noted. But just barely. She glanced into the 
blackness behind her before snapping her fingers once over the iron lock. The mechanism inside 
turned over at her will and she lifted the latch. With some effort, she pushed open the door to the 
cell, sending several rats darting from their refuge.
Firelight danced over Asper’s prone form as Helena slid the torch into a wall sconce. The 
gladiator was impressive up close, maybe even more so than when she had witnessed him at the 
Circus Maximus this afternoon. Stripped of his armor and weapons as punishment for an escape 
attempt the night prior, he’d managed to defeat multiple opponents tasked to finish him off. All 
spectators in attendance for the city’s Saturnalia festivities were thrilled by his ferocity as he 
fought for his life. And won.
Humiliated twice over by his slave, his master sent him to this frigid prison to rot.
Once warm and bronzed, the hard planes of his face were now ashen gray. The deep brown 
color of fresh medjool dates, his shoulder-length hair was damp from fever. Gashes from a recent 
flogging marred the finely honed muscles of his back. His ripped tunic was soaked with blood 
and clung to a well-defined rear and thighs. Despite his current state, he still remained quite the 
sight to behold.
He did not stir as she approached. Focusing her energy, she closed her eyes and used her 
powers to determine what life he had left within him. In her mind’s eye she saw him standing on 
a towering cliff of ice, teetering on the edge. She shook the bleak image from her head—he did 
not have long. Without her intervention, he would make his journey to the Elysian Fields tonight.
But she wouldn’t allow it. Not when she needed his strength, his skill in dealing death. The 
vision she’d seen in the waters of her scrying bowl under the glow of tonight’s moon showed her 
yet another witch with the potential to become more powerful than herself. Helena couldn’t 
ignore it. She had to act.
She had survived too long, sacrificed too much of herself to ensure her talent surpassed all 
others. If another’s gift exceeded hers, she would become the hunted. They would try to seek her 
out just as she had done to countless others—unless she found them first. She would not break 
the vow she made to never again become the prey.
Thus far, Helena had succeeded in dispatching all the threats revealed to her on Winter 
Solstices falling on full moon nights. But the murder and magical draining of a fellow witch—a 
sister in all but blood—was the darkest of enchantments, and her body had become frail over the 
years. Though her innate gift had increased when she absorbed the energy of each rival, her 
physical strength had been severely exhausted. The gradual weakening of her body was a cruel 
tax imposed for using her abilities for such malevolence. Necessary malevolence, of course, but 
it took its toll nonetheless.
Bribing her way into Rome’s festering underbelly in order to revive and rescue this dying 
slave was her last and only chance at survival. And like with anything else she wanted, she’d 
take it.
“Do you agree to my terms, slave?”
Lucius stared at the sable-haired stranger through bleary eyes. He was sitting upon flat, 
chilled rock, but the visible moon in the night sky told him he was no longer in his cell. When he 
turned his head to the side, soaring columns came into focus. Somehow, this woman had brought 
him to Agrippa’s Pantheon. Or had he stumbled here himself? He had flashes of recollection, but 
nothing was clear. After a moment, foggy memories started to return.
Yes, his legs did carry him here, with her at his side. Opening locks without touching them 
and… 
The woman slapped him feebly and asked again. “Do you agree to my terms?” Out of breath 
and barely able to hold herself upright, she used the stone column for support.
The thought struck that his back no longer pained him. Leaning forward, he reached his 
hand around to touch the wounds from his beating, but felt only slightly raised welts where his 
flesh had been scourged not long ago. 
“What is this?” he demanded.
“A second chance. That is, if you’re willing to work off the debt you now owe me.”
“Debt?” He stood, feeling stronger than he had in hours. “What debt do I owe you, woman?”
She laughed, a shrill and empty sound. “You owe me but your life, slave. And should you 
wish to keep it, you will honor your debt.”
“I have no time for this foolishness.” Looking around the immediate area, he was certain the 
guards would be close by—ready to shackle him once again and throw him back into that cage. 
But he saw none. Just a few late-night revelers wandered the streets, merrily shouting ‘Io 
Saturnalia!’ to anyone they passed.
The woman wrapped skeletal fingers around his wrist. “You will make time, Lucius 
Sempronius Asper.”
At once, his heart felt as if it were covered in rime. He clutched his chest and fell to his 
knees. If his heart was encrusted with frost, his back was surely on fire. Searing pain spread 
across his shoulders and spine as the lash marks reopened. Fresh blood trickled down his side 
when he fell to the ground. His head nearly burst as her cackle rang in his ears, though her mouth 
did not move.
She bent down to meet his eyes. “This will be your fate if you disobey me. I brought you 
from the edge of death, and I can take you back to it. I will keep you alive in this state of torment 
until the end of time, slave. You will know no reprieve. And if you slip into madness, I will 
restore your sanity so you may know every second of the agony.” Her green eyes flashed and the 
freezing grip around his heart tightened. “What I want from you is simple. There are those who 
must die so I may live. You will kill them for me.”
The woman released him and the pain ceased. With a deep inhale, Lucius sat upright, 
wincing at the peculiar feeling of his skin knitting back together.
“A sorceress,” he spat between breaths. “You will be burned for this.”
Amused by his assertion, she quirked her lip. “And who will listen to you? You are a slave. 
A fugitive.”
He considered her words. And quickly decided she was right. If he took her to the Vigiles, 
they would think him a fool. Gods, he hardly believed this himself. And after the watchmen had 
a good laugh, they would promptly send him back to prison—or execute him on the spot—if he 
was lucky.
Standing, he shook his head. “Why do you require my assistance? Can you not do this 
yourself?”
“They must be killed using more…primitive means.”
Lucius’ gaze fell to the floor. “They must be killed by one’s hand, not magic.” It was a 
statement, not a question. He seemed to have gone from one master to another. Again to be used 
as a weapon. A nameless, faceless, wielder of death. Once for amusement, and now as an 
assassin for a witch.
“I will ask once more. Do you agree to my terms?”
He glared at the woman. This woman who held his life in her bony hands, threatened him 
with eternal suffering if he did not do her bidding. With a snarl, he reached for her neck, but 
before he could make contact a flare of emerald light arced in his direction, throwing him against 
a column and down the front steps of the temple. As she approached him slowly, the pain 
returned, more quickly and severely than before.
“You cannot injure me, slave. Just as my magic will prevent you from inflicting harm upon 
yourself. As much as it disagrees with you, you are bound to me. And I will have your answer.” 
She raised her arm, his pain intensifying as she curled her fingers into a gnarled fist. “Now.”
She stood above him as he writhed under her torture. His body contorted in spasms and he 
bled from his nose and ears, the warm fluid coating his face. “Y—,” he sputtered and coughed up 
more blood.
“I can’t hear you, slave.”
“Yes! Yes, I agree.”
“Very well.” Her invisible attack ended and Lucius drew in long, stabilizing breaths. “Now 
your work begins.”
Chapter One
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 17th, 2015 CE
Bethany Hayes chewed on her lower lip. Looking from mirror to mirror in the cramped dressing 
room, she took in her appearance from different angles.
“I don’t know, Aunt Mae. This one is just so…red.” She sucked in her stomach. And snug, 
she added silently.
“Well? Come on out, darlin’, and let’s see it.”
She let out a defeated groan and slid the curtain open. Her aunt’s eyes widened over her 
gossip magazine.
“No good?” Beth asked, frowning.
“Bless your heart, child. Did you even look at yourself in it?” Aunt Mae tossed aside her 
reading material.
“Ugh, yes. I’ll try a different one.” She reached to pull the curtain shut but Mae rushed 
forward from her chair and swatted her hand away.
“Turn around, sugar.” Her aunt stood at her back as Beth faced the mirror. The 1950’s red 
velvet dress had a square neckline and a ruched waist flaring into a full pleated skirt with tulle 
underlay. “See how well it accentuates your shape?” She gestured to her niece’s hourglass figure, 
making a dramatic silhouette with her hands. “Darlin’, you’re beautiful.”
Beth sighed then worried her lip.
“And you’re wearing this dress. No arguments,” she declared with a decisive nod. The bell 
hanging from the front door of her vintage clothing store, Mae’s Closet, jangled and one of her 
regulars sauntered in. “Mornin’, Mrs. Wallace!” Aunt Mae called from the back of the shop. 
“I’ve got that purse you had placed on hold right behind the counter.”
As she hurried to attend to her customer, Beth closed the dressing stall with another sigh. 
She pushed the blonde side-swept bangs of her textured pixie cut aside and chanced another look 
at herself in the dress. Soft and luxurious, the material hugged and highlighted her curves. 
Swishing the skirt from side to side, she allowed herself a little smile as it hit playfully just 
below her knees. She had to admit she felt pretty great in it. This was nothing like the simple, 
understated outfits she usually wore. Her conservative parents would not approve. But it really 
would be perfect for her good friend Nikki’s annual Mardi Gras costume party tonight.
“What are you worried about, girl?” she mumbled as she reached back to undo the zipper. 
Shimmying out of the dress, Beth grudgingly admitted she knew exactly what was making her 
anxious. And it wasn’t the disapproval of her mother and father. That, she had more or less made 
peace with.
It had been four years since the last time she went to Nikki’s for Mardi Gras, but what had 
happened on the ride home was as fresh in her mind as ever. Having recently turned twenty-one, 
she did have a bit to drink that night. One rum and coke. That was it. She had sipped it the first 
hour she was there and had plenty to eat during the party. When the police had given her a 
Breathalyzer test she barely blew a .02, proving she was well within the legal limit for driving.
She slipped the dress back on its hanger and hung it on the hook before getting back into her 
own clothes. As she pulled her sweater over her head, the ragged pink scar along her shoulder 
blade caught her eye in the mirror. Aside from the broken ankle, the laceration on her back was 
the worst injury she had sustained from the rollover crash. Caused by bent metal protruding 
through the collapsed roof, the gash was several inches long and required almost two dozen 
stitches. She had other minor cuts and bruises, but the trauma with the most lasting impression 
couldn’t be seen.
Some people black out when they’re in an accident but Beth remembered everything, right 
down to the song on the radio, “Seven Nation Army” by The White Stripes. And the part she 
knew she’d never forget was the sudden blaze of strange green light in the darkness.
Not to mention the man standing behind it.
His eyes were empty as he watched the force of the blast veer her car from the road, sending 
it spinning into an embankment. When the car finally settled, the rock song’s iconic riff 
thundered in her ears and tires spun in the air. Upside down and struggling with the seatbelt 
latch, Beth saw him approach. Her breathing became ragged as her lungs filled with the cloud 
of fine powder expelled when the airbag deployed.
After the belt unlatched, she fell hard onto something sharp and scrambled upright. Over 
shattered safety glass and thick Louisiana mud, she crawled through the open window the best 
she could with an injured ankle. At this point she didn’t even feel any pain. He was getting closer 
and every instinct she had screamed for her to get away from him as fast as possible. That she 
could worry about her injuries later.
She didn’t make it very far before the initial shock wore off and her body refused to go on. 
The man had followed and stood before her as she collapsed in the dirt along the edge of the 
road. His face was grim with resignation. 
Surprising herself, she started to shout at him. Not from fear, but out of rage. Too angry to 
be frightened, she demanded to know why he did this and who—or what—he was. Her heated 
tirade seemed to catch him slightly off guard and a frown line creased his brows. He quickly 
schooled his expression into that of apathy and reached for her.
With a defiant scream, Beth lunged forward, and for a split second the strangest feeling 
washed over her body. Almost like blood rushing back into an appendage that had fallen asleep. 
Immediately following the brief pins-and-needles sensation, the same green flash that had 
flipped her car from the road surged from her fingertips and hit the man square in the chest. He 
stumbled backward and her jaw dropped. Examining her hand, she wondered what in the hell 
had just happened. When he recovered, she spied the hint of a smile on his lips. He took another 
two steps forward, stopped, and scrutinized her for a moment. Coming to some internal decision, 
the man closed his eyes and let out a deep sigh.
And as abruptly as he entered her life, he left it, walking away from her into the pitch black 
stretch of highway. Shortly after, she finally passed out.
Beth shook her head and buttoned up her jeans. Devout Southern Baptists, her parents didn’t 
believe her tale of an otherworldly ability. They were convinced the accident was her own fault
—a consequence of drinking and partying with her no-good friends. Any mention of “magic” 
was not to be uttered in their presence.
She had been crushed by their emphatic denial and the wedge between them grew when her 
gift continued to manifest itself in incredible but unreliable ways. Perhaps with the occasional bit 
of telekinesis, or clairvoyance, but it unfortunately came and went without warning. Beth had yet 
to master it and was lost without any support. Her parents were more comfortable when she 
stayed quiet about her so-called abnormality, and at times there was an undercurrent of 
intolerance and hostility directed her way. She’d eventually given up on waiting for them to 
change how they felt about her newfound talents and left home to live with her Aunt Mae.
The bell on the shop’s front door sounded again and her aunt wished Mrs. Wallace a great 
day.
Aunt Mae was nothing like her brother, and for that Beth was beyond grateful. Mae Hayes 
had always been the black sheep of their lower middle class family. An odd bird who never quite 
fit in with their traditional southern ways. Somewhat of an outcast herself, Beth had always 
gotten along with Mae like a house on fire. And to her relief and more than a little surprise, her 
aunt was considerably open-minded when it came to her explanation of what had happened that 
night and what had occurred since.
She found the no-questions-asked kind of love she never had back at home during the 
several years she lived with her aunt and worked in her quirky resale shop. Aunt Mae even 
encouraged her to turn her love of jewelry making into a profitable side business. A hobby her 
parents had told her on more than one occasion was a waste of time. As it turned out, there was 
quite a demand in Uptown New Orleans for Beth’s funky, upcycled designs sold in Mae’s 
Closet. Utilizing unwanted or broken costume jewelry sold or donated to the store, she made fun 
new pieces. A clip-on earring without a match might become a statement ring, or a brooch 
missing its pin may be turned into a trendy necklace. Locals and tourists alike were fans of her 
work, and she never would have attempted it if it weren’t for her aunt.
Mae also did the best she could to help her learn to control and focus her magic. Of course it 
didn’t come with an instruction manual, but her aunt was a great cheerleader. Sometimes just 
having a loved one at your back to tell you not to give up made all the difference. But despite the 
fact she had to make it up as she went, she had gotten much better than when she’d first 
discovered her talents. She found she could do amazing things with just a mental command or 
flick of her wrist. It was a work in progress, but they were both proud of the strides she’d made.
But lately, even with her aunt’s support, she was having a hard time managing. Her magic 
was getting stronger. Like it was simmering inside her and close to boiling over. And going back 
to the place where it had all started wasn’t helping her nerves. She’d avoided not only the lonely 
road leading to Nikki’s place, but had seen very little of her friends since the accident. It was a 
self-imposed exile; her parents had succeeded in making her believe her choices had brought 
upon the chaos. Aunt Mae told her for years it wasn’t her fault, and her words had only recently 
started to sink in. When Nikki came in a week ago with her yearly attempt to invite Beth back to 
her Fat Tuesday party, she’d finally relented.
She walked from the back of the shop, dress in hand. While all these factors added to the 
stress of going to Nikki’s party, the biggest source of her anxiety was him. The authorities had 
never located him and of course she hadn’t seen him since that night. Not in person anyway. No, 
the man standing in the middle of the highway remained in her thoughts no matter how hard she 
tried to put him from her mind. There was something about the defeat written on his face when 
he’d walked up to her, like he didn’t want to be doing what he was doing.
Ridiculous, she murmured. He’d tried to kill her. She just didn’t know why he decided not to 
follow through with it. Or why he had attempted it in the first place.
Heading to the front counter, she rubbed her temple. Her power was increasing; she could 
feel it in every fiber of her being. What she needed was to learn how to direct it. She needed to 
know how to tell it what to do. Because right now, it did just about whatever it damn well 
pleased.
“Sugar, are you all right?” Aunt Mae asked, startling her.
When Beth flinched, hat boxes piled on a high shelf tumbled from their perch near the 
ceiling.
“Oh! Aunt Mae, I’m sorry!” She draped the dress over a chair and began to clean up the 
mess.
“Hush, now,” she soothed. “You know you can’t help it.”
Beth pushed the hair from her eyes and did her best not to cry. “It’s getting worse. And the 
dreams are happening every night now.”
Sitting next to her on the floor, Mae tucked her niece’s short hair behind her ears. “The 
dreams of him?”
She nodded. “The same one every time. I’m sitting on one end of an old stone bridge, and 
he’s walking away from me to the other side. I still don’t know what to make of it. But in the 
dream, I want to follow him. I want to know what’s on the other side of the bridge.”
Mae gave her a soft smile. “Darlin’, I know a little somethin’ about wanting to know what 
else is out there, what’s beyond the life you know. Me and your daddy grew up in the same 
house, believe in the same God, and still go to the same church. But we couldn’t be more 
different. He felt right as rain keeping everything as he’d always known it, never trying anything 
new or seeing things a different way. But I was never like that. I wanted new experiences, to 
meet new people and see what they had to say about things. So I left that tiny town in the middle 
of nowhere and I’m all the better for it.” She patted Beth’s hand. “And you did the same thing. 
That takes some kinda strength, darlin’. Which is why I know you’ll get this gift of yours under 
control.”
Beth gave a humorless laugh. “Is it really such a gift? I’ve been wondering if I should’ve 
listened to Mom and Dad. Maybe I should just forget everything that happened and try to hide 
what I can do.”
“You will do no such thing!” Her aunt gave her a gentle push on the shoulder. “You 
remember that professor I dated years ago? He told me once about this quote by Benjamin 
Franklin. ‘Hide not your talents, they for use were made. What's a sundial in the shade?’ And it 
stuck with me.”
Beth smiled and let out a gusty breath.
“That’s better. You know your smile just lights your face right up.” Aunt Mae helped her 
with the rest of the boxes. “Huh.” She paused and looked up as if in deep thought. “Now that I 
think about it, it may have been the tennis instructor I went out with for a time who told me that 
quote. Doesn’t matter though. You get my gist. Right, sugar?”
“Yes, Aunt Mae. I get it,” Beth said with a laugh.
Chapter Two
Lucius stepped from the path of the vase before it crashed into the door to Helena’s suite in the 
Ritz-Carlton on Canal Street.
“Four years, Asper! It’s been four years since I saw the vision of her in my scrying bowl! 
And what have you to show for it? Nothing!”
Avoiding the broken crystal and scattered lilies, he clasped his hands at his back and strode 
into the living area. “Your vision showed a glimpse of a blonde girl wearing beads at a Mardi 
Gras party. That’s not very much to go on, Helena.”
She scoffed. “Well it narrowed her down to one city, did it not?”
“I scoured New Orleans for months after the Winter Solstice in 2010. I conducted daily 
searches all throughout January and February 2011. If she was in this city during the 
celebrations, I would have found her. She could have been at a Mardi Gras party in any city.”
Helena slumped onto the suite’s plush couch. “I’ve grown tired of that excuse, Asper. It’s 
had you gallivanting all over the States wasting our time for years. She’s here. She’s always been 
here—I can feel it.” She covered her eyes with the back of her arm, her hair cascading over the 
pillow in dark waves. “I should have accompanied you the first time you went. Maybe then we 
could’ve moved on from this nonsense instead of dragging it out for as long as you have.”
He walked to the window and observed the activity below. A cheerful brass band and 
thumping drums led a parade of costumed performers down the street. Mardi Gras participants in 
the traditional colors of green, purple, and yellow threw trinkets to the excited crowd from atop 
garish floats. He wondered if she was down there right now… Bethany. His Bethany. At least 
that’s how he’d come to think of her these past years.
After countless centuries acting as Helena’s attack dog, Lucius thought he’d forgotten how 
to feel. Thought he’d lost the capacity to empathize. When your hand is forced again and again 
to murder the innocent, putting aside the part of yourself that cares is a necessary defense 
mechanism. But Bethany…she brought him back from the void. She had such a fight in her, such 
spirit. In that moment in the empty highway, she had awakened something in him he was sure 
had died a long time ago. He now had a purpose.
To do whatever he could to make sure Helena never found her.
The dark witch didn’t make it easy; if she had he would’ve escaped her grip back when 
Rome was still in power. He’d tried on numerous occasions to take his own life, but her magic 
protected him from every attempt. No matter the distance between them, her power would slow 
down an intentional fall, or even divert a galloping horse if he jumped in its path.
As long as they were bound, Lucius was immortal. Helena did not age—a gift bestowed to 
her in antiquity by a water nymph who had taken pity upon the witch. Helena had been assaulted 
by a man who came upon her when she was washing clothes in a river. The naiad, known as 
Larunde, found her violated and beaten nearly to death. The nymph had also experienced the 
pain and humiliation of rape, and brought her back from certain death. With the nymph’s act of 
kindness, she was granted everlasting life. She maintained the appearance of a woman in her 
early forties, and Lucius had appeared to be twenty-eight since the day she took him from his 
cell.
And if he simply declined to do as she commanded? She held over his head the threat not 
only of his own torment, but she promised to torture the witches they hunted as well. Helena had 
in her employ men who would take great enjoyment in “using” her victims before they died. At 
least, at one time they were men. They had become so corrupted by the use of dark magic they 
were barely human. She’d forced Lucius to watch their depravity when he refused to comply 
with her demands at some point during the Dark Ages. It made him ill to think about it even 
now. The fact she allowed it, having been through the very same horror was a testament to her 
heartlessness.
And because her spell protected against it, he couldn’t harm her or hire another to do so. The 
woman had thought of everything.
All he could do was provide the witches some dignity in death. To ensure it was quick, and 
make sure they didn’t experience the terror and pain Helena would have waiting for them.
But his decision not to bring Bethany to her complicated matters. He had managed to 
distract Helena for a time by taking on some lucrative contracts in magic’s dark underworld. 
Organized crime was as rampant with witches and mages as it was with regular people, and 
Lucius had a reputation as both a great tracker and an efficient killer. While he took no pleasure 
in it, at least these people were anything but innocent. They were deeply embroiled in everything 
from human trafficking to human sacrifice. His master was happy with the money coming in, 
and for a while, she forgot about the witch that got away. He knew he couldn’t stall forever, and 
now she insisted they both go to New Orleans and he look for her again.
“She’s getting stronger,” Helena said through gritted teeth. “You will find her, Asper. You’ll 
find her and bring her to me so I can perform the ritual. If you don’t, I’ll find someone who will. 
Trust me when I say they won’t be nearly as kind as you choose to be.” She took a steadying 
breath and raised her hand. At her gesture, the front door to her suite swung open with a bang. 
She nodded in its direction. “Now get out. I don’t want to see you again until you have the girl.”
Lucius exited the room and the door slammed shut behind him. He needed to find Bethany. 
Tonight. And he had an idea of just where she’d be.
Gripping the steering wheel until her knuckles turned white, Beth made her way through the 
winding roads of New Orleans’ Lakeshore suburb. The upscale neighborhood sat nestled along 
the southern edge of Lake Pontchartrain where the per capita income was more than double the 
Louisiana average. It was nothing like the tired, rural town next to Bayou Barataria where Beth 
grew up.
She and Nikki had met as Brownies at an area Girl Scout meeting, and when you’re that 
young, you don’t worry so much about have and have not. They remained close friends all 
through junior and senior high school despite being in different districts and still kept in touch 
after graduation. It had been tough being away from Nikki, but a part of her felt she deserved the 
punishment. Fortunately Aunt Mae was able to talk some sense into her.
Beth held her breath as she drove past the stretch of road where she’d crashed her beat-up 
Ford Taurus and let out a sigh of relief when it was in her rear-view. She had no intention of 
reliving the experience—seeing him nightly in her dreams was more than enough. She also had 
no intention of sharing with Aunt Mae the extent of him she actually saw in the dreams. The 
bridge dream was one thing, but there were other, more explicit visions that came to her when 
she was awake.
She often saw him in his bed with white sheets twisted around his nude body in stark 
contrast to his bronzed skin. His deep brown hair just barely touched his broad shoulders, and 
when he turned onto his stomach, she saw thick crisscrossing scars all over his back. She sensed 
him as he lay there awake for hours, his pale blue eyes staring at nothing in particular. Beth 
couldn’t read any specific thoughts, but somehow she knew when he came to her in these 
visions, it was because he was thinking about her. Thoughts of her kept him up at night, and she 
felt from him the combined sensations of guilt, longing, and profound sorrow.
For the life of her, she didn’t know what any of it actually meant, other than the distinct 
impression his actions that night weren’t what he’d truly wanted. What she did know, however, 
was thoughts of him had been keeping her up nights as well.
She pulled into the residential cul-de-sac and found a space along the street. Cars were 
parked bumper to bumper on both sides, and she heard music and laughter from Nikki’s parents’ 
house as soon as she opened the car door. She grabbed her borrowed clutch from the passenger 
seat and smoothed out her skirt before heading inside.
Nikki’s parents lived in what was easily considered a mansion, but the two story Greek 
Revival facade they had added to the front made their late 90’s house look like an elegant 
Antebellum plantation home. She trailed her fingers over one of the columns as she traversed the 
porch to the open front door. When she was barely two steps into the foyer, Nikki’s excited 
squeal rang over the noise inside.
“Bethie! I’m so happy you made it!” Nikki weaved through the crowd of costumed 
partygoers to reach her.
“Hi, Nikki!” Beth shouted over the din and rushed to hug her friend. They stepped back after 
their embrace to take in each other’s outfits. Nikki was classic Lady Gaga in a bobbed wig, 
geisha-style lipstick, and a futuristic metallic peplum dress.
“Nikki, you look fantastic! And tall,” she added, looking down at her sky-high platform 
heels. “Are you freaking crazy? Those are out of control!”
“I know!” Nikki wobbled and grabbed Beth’s shoulder for support. “I can hardly stand in 
them, but they’re fab, right? A couple more sips of my hurricane and I’ll change into some flats. 
But I’m working them for now aren’t I?”
Beth laughed. “Hell yes, you are!”
“But look at you…Miss Marilyn Monroe, you are looking divine tonight.”
Beth fluffed her curled blonde hair and leaned forward with her best Marilyn impression, 
tilting her head back with a sultry laugh.
“Yes!” Nikki exclaimed, cracking up. “Amazing.” She took Beth’s hands and gave them a 
squeeze. “You look good—like really good. I’m so glad you made it, Bethie. I really missed 
you.”
“I missed you too. Look, I’m sorry I dropped off the face of the earth. I just needed some 
time to get my head straight.”
Nikki nodded. “I know, I know. Listen, just forget it. You’re here now. That’s what 
matters.”
Swallowing past the lump in her throat, she smiled. “Thank you for understanding.”
“All right, all right. Enough of that.” Nikki waved her hands in dismissal. “How about a 
drink?”
“Oh. Just a water I think.”
“Fair enough.” She led her to the makeshift bar to grab a bottle of Evian. “Here ya go, 
sweetie.”
“Thank ya, darlin’.”
Beth steadied Nikki as she nearly lost her balance again.
“Whoops!” Her friend giggled and flailed her arms. “I think it may be time to de-Gaga my 
feet.”
Laughing, Beth agreed. “I think you might be right.”
“Will you be okay on your own for a while?”
“Yeah, I’ll be fine. Go on.” Shooing her off, Beth put on Marilyn’s breathy purr. “Don’t you 
worry about me. I’ll be busy mingling with all these lovely people. We’ll have a grand old time.”
“Good, I want you to have a good time. Don’t think too hard on anything and just have fun, 
all right?”
“You got it, sister.”
Nikki gave a firm nod. “Well all right then. I’ll see you a bit later.” With intense 
concentration to the task at hand, she pivoted and stepped away slowly in the massive heels.
Lucius stalked around the far perimeter of the home near the lake. The sprawling residence was 
filled to the brim with party guests in costumes, just as it had been the night he scouted it four 
years ago. Bethany was in there, of that he was certain. He felt the familiar pull to be near her 
that often struck on those nights when sleep eluded him. When thoughts of her flooded his mind 
like a torrent and made him wish he had a different life. Not the hundreds upon hundreds of lives 
he had lived at the mercy of a cruel master, but just one life, this time lived for himself.
But he knew better than to dream about the impossible. He had committed too many sins in 
his many lifetimes to be looked upon with any favor by the gods.
What he could do, here and now, was warn Bethany. Tell her to get as far away from 
Helena’s reach as possible. Explain she had to go to a place where he’d never be able to track her 
down. Even that couldn’t guarantee her safety, but it was the only option.
Now he just had to find a way to make her listen.
A lakeside breeze gusted and he glared in the direction of his quarry. When the air settled, 
he moved toward the vast backyard, the locks of his windblown hair partially obscuring his face 
and his mouth set in a firm line. He had with him a dose of Helena’s nightshade potion, a potent 
mix of herbs and enchantments used to subdue the witches without force. Lucius had demanded 
she provide him with a painless method to bring in her victims. Ingesting a few teaspoons would 
render the witches unconscious for several hours, enough so they didn’t experience their magical 
draining and inevitable demise. A couple of drops would knock Bethany out long enough for him 
to take her somewhere quiet and relay his warning.
That was the easy part. Getting her to trust the man who had nearly killed her was another 
matter altogether.
Chapter Three
Laughing, Beth clapped her hands to the music as the guests who entered themselves into the 
night’s costume party showed off their moves in a Soul Train-style dance line. Nikki’s 
gregarious father had a microphone and announced the contestants with note cards as they 
shaked and shimmied by.
Nikki’s family did not mess around when it came to Mardi Gras.
After finishing her water she wiped a bead of sweat from her hairline. The entire first floor 
was packed with dancers and spectators shouting for their favorite costumes. Sandwiched 
between a giant M&M and someone in an inflatable sumo wrestler getup, she started to feel 
somewhat claustrophobic.
“Excuse me,” she said and made her way through the crowd to get some air.
Once out back, she took a deep breath of the refreshing winter chill. It usually hovered 
around the mid to high fifties in February, but to a N’awlins girl that was downright brisk. Beth 
shivered and rubbed her upper arms, but wasn’t ready to head inside just yet.
Illuminated by randomly scattered tiki torches, the backyard stretched a ways toward Lake 
Pontchartrain. Situated a good distance from the house, a wooden pergola wrapped in white 
Christmas lights caught her attention and she looked over her shoulder to the commotion inside 
before walking to the cushioned patio set under the lights.
She sat in one of the chairs and bent down to take off her shoes, finally letting out a great 
sigh when she undid the strappy sandals. Rubbing her foot with one hand and holding the high 
heels in the other, she paused at the sound of movement by the other end of the structure.
“Is someone there?” She craned her head to see past the thick wooden beam.
A booted foot came into view, followed by a long leg in dark denim jeans. A muscular torso 
in a collarless leather jacket drew her eyes up to the man’s face.
“You!” Her shoes slipped from her grasp as she stood.
The man who had attacked her—the one she couldn’t stop thinking about—was back to 
finish her off. She stared him down as he approached and put his hands up in an apparent gesture 
of peace.
“I’m not going to harm you, Bethany,” he assured her. “I’m here to help you.”
“Like hell you are.”
The corner of his mouth briefly curved into a smile.
“You can trust me. I know you have no reason to. But you have to believe—”
Beth had focused her power and blasted him with a wallop of her energy before he could 
finish his lie. The green flash lit up the area around them as he was thrown into the corner of the 
pergola. The framework trembled and the Christmas lights flickered. She concentrated, readying 
herself for another shot.
He groaned as he sat up. “I see you’ve been practicing.”
“Damn right I have.” She whipped her head from him to the house. Everyone was inside and 
preoccupied with the costume contest, too far away to hear if she called for help. “Don’t move,” 
she warned.
“Bethany, listen to me. We don’t have much time.” He stood up slowly. “When I come back 
empty-handed she’ll send her dark mages after you. You can’t stay here.”
“Who will send what after me?” She shook her head quickly. “I need you to shut up. Okay, 
psycho? Can you do that for me?”
“Beth, please.” The man took a step toward her.
She shot him again, this time at his feet. It knocked him off balance but he caught himself on 
the back of a patio chair before he fell.
“I can do this all night, creep. Or maybe I should stop holding back. I’ve taught myself a lot 
since you tried to kill me.”
“Lucius.” He straightened and started toward her again. “My name is Lucius.”
“I don’t care what your name is, and back off!” She directed every ounce of mental strength 
to blast Lucius once more with her magic, not knowing the extent of damage he’d suffer. It was 
her or him, and she wasn’t going to pull any punches.
With a growl, he jumped forward, right into the path of the electric arcs flying at him. Her 
magic didn’t strike him, instead it bounced violently from a protective green field around him 
just like her car had before it rolled from the highway. Beth ducked just in time and it missed 
hitting her by less than a second before it faded into the darkness.
“I’m bound to Helena with her magic, Bethany. I have been for some time. Since I put 
myself in front of your blast intentionally, it couldn’t touch me. That’s how your car went from 
the road that night.”
Beth stood on shaky legs. “Who the hell is Helena?”
“She’s the reason I came after you. I never wanted to hurt you. I never wanted to hurt 
anyone, you have to understand that. Helena is a very strong witch, maybe the strongest one of 
you left since she drained so many others of their magic. Please, we have to hurry. Come with 
me now and I’ll explain everything.”
“Witch?” She never said it out loud about herself, never openly associated her gift with that 
word. Not even to Aunt Mae. But having it come from him somehow made sense, felt right, even 
if she wasn’t ready to hear it. “No,” she said, shaking her head, “I’m not going anywhere with 
you.”
Lucius tracked Bethany’s eyes as they darted from him to the perceived safety of the house. She 
was going to run.
He couldn’t let her escape—he needed to slip away with her quietly. They’d already pushed 
their luck with her impressive flashes of magic arcs. No one had seen, but if she kept it up she’d 
be sure to draw someone’s attention. He covertly pulled the vial of nightshade from his back 
pocket, his other hand held up in an effort to calm her down.
She met his eyes. Bethany showed no fear, just determination and anger. He admired her for 
it all the more.
In an instant, she turned and made a run for it. Lucius caught up with her in a few long 
strides and wrapped his arm around her from the back, pinning her arms against her chest. She 
screamed and fought and kicked, but none of the people in the distant house paid any mind. He 
thumbed the cork from the small potion bottle and brought it to her mouth.
Her short hair brushed against his face and the velvet dress she wore was impossibly soft 
under his fingers. If he had another life, he’d pull her lush curves against his body and never let 
her go. But even if she didn’t despise him, it could never be. He had to make sure she was as far 
from Helena as possible. And in turn, far away from him. He lowered his eyes in defeat and 
tipped the nightshade against her lips.
“No!” she shouted, and the vial flew from his hand.
Bethany had the gift of telekinesis.
Helena was the only other witch he had ever come across with the talent, and it took a lot 
out of her; she rarely used it as it required so much magical energy. Momentarily caught off 
guard, he didn’t notice as Bethany’s teeth came down hard on his fingers. He pulled his bloodied 
hand away with a curse and she used the opportunity to push him off.
Beth’s bare feet pounded over the cool grass. She didn’t dare look back—she was almost to the 
house.
She opened her mouth to shout for help when the disco beat blaring from inside suddenly 
stopped. The people inside no longer danced, no longer whooped and hollered at the costumes. 
Instead, they seemed frozen in place. Some were mid-clap, others with a drink unmoving against 
their lips. Beth stopped in front of the French sliding glass doors and gazed in awe, her pursuer 
forgotten.
“It’s too bad you’ll never learn to do that.”
A woman with dark, flowing hair sneered when Beth turned to the direction of her voice.
“It really is a fun trick,” the woman continued.
Farther back, Lucius was on the ground struggling against the unseen hold of four tall, gaunt 
men standing over him in black robes. Were they the dark mages he spoke of?
“Helena,” Beth rasped.
“The one and only! And I am so glad to finally meet you. I had a hunch my Lucius here had 
been lying to me about you so I asked a few friends to follow him.” Helena shook her head. 
“We’ll talk about this later, Asper. But you should be aware I’m severely disappointed.”
“What do you want from me, Helena?” Beth demanded.
“To be honest, my dear, I’d be happy just to have you dead. Draining your magic would be 
preferable, but seeing as Lucius is temporarily out of service, you’ll have to die by some good 
old-fashioned dark magic.”
Helena brought her emaciated hands up and Beth recognized the look of concentration that 
would precede the flash of green light. Instinct took over and Beth produced her own magic to 
deflect the emerald orb barreling toward her.
Blinking twice, Helena was taken aback by her defense. She scowled, bared her teeth, and 
redoubled her efforts. Beth parried every shot and threw as much of her own magic she could 
toward her attacker. She was inexperienced compared to the older witch, and her aim left much 
to be desired, but Beth made up for it with grit and fortitude. And the promise to herself she 
wouldn’t stop until Helena was down for the count.
The night turned as bright as day with their vibrant clashes. They leaned forward and dug 
the balls of their feet into the ground as their power pushed them away from one another.
One of the dark mages moved to assist Helena, and she screamed at him, not ceasing her 
barrage against Beth. “No, you fool! It will take the power of all four of you to keep Asper 
down!”
Beth took advantage of the distraction, using her telekinesis to fling a large planter at the 
woman’s head. Luckily, her magic once again did as she asked. Helena moved her arm in a wide 
half-circle, creating a bright shield to block it. Terracotta shards exploded in every direction as 
the pot made contact. Both women covered their heads to protect themselves from the shrapnel, 
but a heavy piece struck Beth in her knee and she cried out before collapsing to the ground.
An invisible weight forced Beth flat on her back and held her arms at her sides. She thrashed 
back and forth to no avail as Helena used her more practiced telekinetic power to restrain her.
“My, my.” Helena breathed heavily through clenched teeth. “You are a strong one, aren’t 
you? Such a shame. I’d love to see what I could do with your power.”
Another weight began to crush Beth’s throat.
“But I’d rather see you dead!”
She gasped for breath but none came, and an enraged roar sounded from where the dark 
mages held Lucius down. From the corner of her eye, she saw him break free from their 
enchantment and sweep a leg across the grass, dropping two of the mages to the ground. When 
she spied the flash of the blade he pulled from his jacket, a renewed sense of hope washed over 
her.
Summoning every stich of power within, she projected the mental image of her own fingers 
around Helena’s neck. The older witch’s eyes widened and her face turned red. As she grasped at 
her throat, the heavy, choking grip on Beth lessened. She stood and drew in a shallow breath. 
Then another. Helena released her and she did the same, before they both diverted all of their 
power into one final attack.
They heaved their magic at each other one last time, Beth’s green flashes and arcs taking on 
a new bluish glow as she called upon every bit of her preternatural strength. When the bright 
spheres of pure energy crashed together, a pulse reverberated in the air above them. The force of 
the pulsation hit Helena hard and she staggered back.
Helena began to cough and wheeze, a look of abject terror falling over her face. Her skin 
turned gray, then dark purple. Her magic was failing. Beth backed away as she clawed at her 
sunken cheeks in desperation. Instead of blood, the scratches turned to ash until her head and 
neck collapsed in on itself.
Lucius took out the last dark mage, and like the others, he turned to dust. He pulled his dagger 
from the crumbling corpse and ran to Beth. As Helena disintegrated before her, a strange warmth 
filled his chest for the briefest moment. With her death, he was free. And he had Beth to thank 
for it.
He approached her tentatively. She stared in shock as the last of his former master fell to her 
feet like soot in a fireplace. The music from the house started up again without warning and the 
people inside carried on, oblivious to what had just happened. Beth didn’t even jump.
“Holy shit.”
“Yeah.” Lucius nodded with an amused smile. “Are you all right?”
Mouth agape, she looked up at him. “Uh, no. Not particularly.” Beth swayed a little and he 
caught her.
“Shh, you’re safe now.” 
He hesitated, then fanned his hand over her back. To his amazement, she relaxed in his 
arms. He traced his finger over the long, pink scar on her shoulder blade, not unlike the scars he 
bore on his own back. Lucius hated that she had it because of him. If she let him, he’d spend the 
rest of his mortal life making up for the pain he’d caused her.
“I’m still mad at you,” she mumbled, weary from the battle she’d just won.
Lucius laughed quietly. “I figured as much.” He pulled back and cradled her face in his 
hand, wiping a tear from her cheek with the other. “And I wouldn’t have it any other way.”
Epilogue
Five Months Later
Washington, DC
Beth tapped her foot impatiently while she waited for Lucius to call back that the coast was clear. 
The unused Metro tunnel was pitch black, save for the soft blue-green glow radiating from her 
hands. A slow dripping of water sounded somewhere behind her and the smell of mechanical 
grime persisted along the tracks.
Lucius hated that she wanted to do this, but all she had to do was remind him he owed her. 
When she saw the news reports of the sickening attacks on women in the DC area, it sounded a 
lot like what he had told her of dark mages. She’d insisted on going to see if it was true and if so, 
she wanted to do whatever she could to stop them. With the help of Lucius’ training, her magic 
had grown stronger by the day and she felt she had to do something. She needed to utilize her 
gift for something good.
The two of them had tracked the dark mages to an abandoned underground passageway they 
believed they were using as a nest. The plan was to ambush them while they rested and Lucius 
was not happy she demanded to go with him.
She smiled.
If someone would have told her a few years ago she’d be trudging through a tunnel with a 
former gladiator hunting dark magic users, she would have told them they needed to get their 
head checked. Yet here she was. And while the setting lacked ambience, the company wasn’t 
half bad.
Slowly but surely, and most likely against her better judgement, Beth had warmed to Lucius 
since Mardi Gras. On top of that, she couldn’t help but notice how his eyes lingered on her when 
he thought she wasn’t looking. And she found she didn’t mind looking at him, either. But 
thoughts of their relationship and where it might go had to wait.
There were dark mages to slay.
Beth and Lucius will return in Infernal Embrace
Available August 2017
Read on for an excerpt of
Infernal Embrace
Book One of the Crescent City Arcana Series
by Rachel Chanticleer
Excerpt from Infernal Embrace, available August 2017
It was just after eleven when Beth took the dog out to the courtyard behind the townhouse where 
she now lived. The man watched her from a distance, waiting for the right moment to carry out 
his plan. Her short hair was almost golden under the decorative outdoor lamps lining the 
walkway and the belted dress hugging her hourglass figure fluttered in the slight breeze. The 
apples of her cheeks had a rosy tinge from time spent in the sun, a warm contrast to her 
otherwise fair skin. She closed her eyes and tilted her head up, evidently enjoying the brief 
respite from the oppressive Louisiana heat. This was the perfect time—she was relaxed, 
unprepared. He’d strike now.
He rolled a small leather pouch around in his hand. The bag was filled with yagé leaves, 
typically boiled after being freshly picked by Amazonian shamans to brew a hallucinogenic tea. 
But this Spirit Vine, or ayahuasca, was prepared neither as it is traditionally in Peru, nor as given 
to groups of adventurous celebrities and the bored elite of New York and Los Angeles willing to 
vomit for hours in exchange for a potentially life-altering trip. The leaves crunching within the 
leather in his palm had been dried and purified by a local brujo and sealed in the bag with a 
binding charm. But not before a few strands of Beth’s and his own hair were tucked inside. He 
needed to get her alone. Just the two of them.
With his lips pressed to the pouch, he whispered an ancient verse, and then lit it with a silver 
flip-top lighter. As he held it away from his body, the bag burned cobalt blue, then the fire 
changed to a bright purple. The flames neared his fingertips and he scowled. In the back room of 
the botánica shop he’d been warned not to release the yagé a moment too soon or both he and 
Beth could become trapped in el Velo Entre los Mundos. 
The Veil Between the Worlds. A place for neither the living nor the dead. Somewhere Beth 
would have no choice but to use her magic.
The fire had darkened to a deep plum and the searing heat now toyed with his thumb and 
index finger, but he didn’t dare drop it. At last the space surrounding her began to fade away, 
black and empty at the edges like a photo taken with a pinhole camera. Beth must have seen the 
margins of reality falling into shadows as well; she took several steps back and looked around 
frantically. Before the courtyard vanished completely, she found him in the darkness and met his 
eyes.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Rachel Chanticleer is a writer who sees beauty in darkness, and can find a love story where you'd 
least expect it. Her stories often feature worlds where the paranormal hides just out of view—
until it's time to turn the lives of her characters upside down. She lives in a former steel town 
along the East Coast's revitalized Rust Belt.
Connect with Rachel here:
facebook.com/WriterRachelChanticleer
twitter.com/RaeChanticleer
rachelchanticleer.com
Sign up to receive 
news and updates via email at:
Rae’s Reading Room <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
“Of course, of course, we’ll leave you to it,” Iskanderon said.  The three started to 
leave, but Iskanderon paused, leaning on the wall of the carrel.  “Oh, thought you 
should know; rumor is that the Paladin himself is designing the course this year.”  He 
shot a final smile at Keric, and left before he could respond.
Keric only shook his head.  “Wonderful.”  He carefully rolled up the scroll he’d been 
working on, and put it along with the book he’d been using back amongst the pile.  He 
opened the scroll case, and glanced at the inventory in the lid before he drew out a roll 
of parchments of varied color and size.  Spreading them out to his left, he stared at 
them for a moment, then took the first one from the top and started to read.
* * * * *
Chapter 2
“Absolutely not.  I will not wear those… clothes.”
“Come on, man, it’s tradition!”
Keric’s expression soured at Iskanderon’s reply.  The taller man grasped a sleeve of 
the robe that Alis was holding up, and lifted the fabric to reveal the full intensity of the 
colored patterns woven into it.  “Well, it is a bit… bright, but this is what the public 
expects of magic-users, it fits the conventional image in the mind of the plebs.  And it 
helps the audience tell the competitors apart.  You know that you can hardly see 
anything through the Viewing Pool unless you have one of the closer seats.”
“It is ridiculous,” Keric said.  “And impractical; why, I don’t imagine I could walk ten 
steps in that without tripping.”
“Talith was a good deal taller than you,” Alis said.  “We adjusted it as much as we 
could, given the limited time-frame.”
“I’m just surprised that there isn’t a pointed hat to go with it,” Keric observed, dryly.
“What, you forgot the hat?” Iskanderon said to Alis.  At Keric’s scowl, he laughed 
and added, “Kidding!  I am only kidding!  Come on, all of the other competitors will be 
wearing similar finery.  You don’t want the scrolls to look drab by comparison.  Alis, talk 
to him, will you?  I need to make sure we don’t miss our mark for the introductions.  I 
saw the Paladin himself earlier, with all of the deans; it’s a full house for this year.”  His 
grin grew wider, if anything, as he headed to the door of the small changing room, 
leaving Keric and Alis alone.
“You know, he’s using you as much as he is me,” Keric said to her.
“Kander is…  well, he is what he is,” Alis said.  She held the robe up against him, 
confirming the size.  It would trail slightly on the floor, he saw.  “It’s really not that bad,” 
she said.
He looked at her suspiciously.  “You keep holding it up that way… what’s on the 
back, that you aren’t showing me?”
She maintained an innocent look for all of a second before she yielded and reversed 
the robe, revealing the design stitched into its back, a representation of a huge yellow 
parchment scroll, partially unrolled to reveal mystical-looking—but nonsensical, Keric 
saw—characters.
Keric raised an eyebrow.  The two shared another long look, and finally both 
laughed.
When Iskanderon returned half a cycle later, Keric was dressed, and was just 
buckling the wide leather belt that fit over the robe.  The oversized buckle was a 
mockery of the ones of real silver that actual mages wore, but it bore the sigil he hoped 
he would have the right to wear one day, an unrolled scroll that was far more tasteful in 
design than the garish decoration on the back of his robe.  But maybe Iskanderon was 
right; once he was in the Labyrinth, no one would be able to see small details through 
the Viewing Pool.
“Oh, good, you’re ready,” Iskanderon said.  “Come on, the other competitors are 
already in the staging area,” he said.  “It makes a good display to be the last to arrive, 
but if you’re late, the deans and their exalted guests won’t be happy.”
Keric picked up his scroll case, and lifted the thin leather supporting strap over his 
shoulder.  He started toward the exit, but Alis stopped him.  “Wait, is that yours?”
He looked back at the small leather wallet lying on the bench, and blushed.  “Ah, 
right.  My own scrolls.”  There were only four in his own cache, a few useful minor spells 
that he’d had handy, and one more substantive healing spell that he’d found time to 
write in between his other preparations for the competition.  He’d meant to add the 
contents of the wallet to the collection that Draef had provided, but in his hurry he’d 
forgotten.  He started to open the case, but Iskanderon forestalled him.  “No time for 
that, we’ve got to go now,” he said, taking Keric’s arm.  The young mage tucked the 
wallet under his robe, into the deep pocket sewn into his vest.
He was a bit nervous, but mostly he wanted to get this over with, so he could get 
back to the real work that mattered.  He wasn’t ambitious in the way that Iskanderon 
was, craving approbation and maybe even power and influence.  But the magic, that 
had won him early on, ever since his uncle had first worked spells in his presence.  He’d 
been just a boy then, and he now knew that Hule Olwyhn’s talents had been barely 
those of an apprentice, but at the time the magic had seemed wondrous and fantastic, 
something from another world that brightened the quite mundane one that he lived in. 
His passion for the magic was what had brought him here, and learning more, doing 
more, expanding his knowledge and his talent, that was what drove him.
Iskanderon was briefing him on details of past years’ competitions, but finally Keric 
interrupted him.  “Don’t worry, I’ve read the manuals by Dratek and Joranther on the 
Labyrinth, and I reviewed the commentaries on the last fifty runnings that are in the 
main archives,” he said.
“Come on, you haven’t had time to—”
“You chose him because he’s good,” Alis said.  She grabbed Iskanderon’s arm as 
they came to an arched doorway.  “We’ll need to hurry if we’re going to claim the seats 
that Draef was supposed to save for us.”  Her eyes gleamed as she looked at Keric. 
“You’ll do great,” she said, with that soft smile that had so entranced him back during 
their first year.
Then they were gone, Iskanderon flashing him a “V” salute as they left through the 
side door.  Keric turned back to the arch and took a steadying breath before stepping 
through.
His three rivals looked up as he entered the small waiting room.  He knew them by 
name and by reputation, and had been in a class or two with some of them, but this was 
their first true meeting.
“Well, look who finally decided to grace us with his presence,” Ashandra Hael said. 
She was the antithesis of Alis, tall and curvy, with lustrous black hair tied into a smart 
bun.  She wasn’t beautiful in the traditional sense, but there was nevertheless 
something striking about her, maybe in the way she pursed her full lips, or the 
permanent twinkle of amusement visible in her eyes.  She was dressed in an impressive 
ensemble that was more like a dress than a traditional robe, layers of dark cloth in 
shades of blue and violet that approached black.  She wore a wrap over her shoulders, 
and Keric didn’t need to see her back to know that it would be fashioned into the shape 
of a shield.  A similar design was visible on the silver buckle at her waist.  She carried 
no obvious foci that he could see, but he knew that the amulets used in her chosen field 
of magic would be hidden somewhere on her person.
“Ease off, Hael,” Trave Sarhus said.  He was the oldest among them, nearly thirty, 
and he carried himself with a calm confidence that seemed to be genuine, as far as 
Keric could discern.  His robe was infused with some sort of stiff laminate that shone 
brightly even in the relatively dim interior light; it would probably blaze like fire in the 
sunlight outdoors.  His buckle was crafted into the shape of a multifaceted gemstone, 
and he certainly would have an assortment of spelled stones in the pouches that 
dangled from his belt.  Keric had learned in his research that Trave had participated in 
three Labyrinth competitions; he had won outright two years ago, and had done well in 
each of the others.  He’d won his certificate seven years ago, but his reputation was of 
patience and methodical progress rather than procrastination, and it was widely 
accepted that he would pass his review board and become a full mage by the end of the 
current session.
The last member of the group came forward and offered his hand to Keric.  “Marthek 
Jarol,” he said in introduction, with a wide and open smile.
Keric took the hand and shook it.  Marthek’s grip was strong, but then it would be, 
given what he was.  The steel mage was dressed in the style of an ancient knight, a 
look that seemed in no way an affectation on him.  Marthek was tall and strong, broad-
shouldered, with a mane of golden hair that gave him the look of a legendary hero 
who’d just stepped out of a book or down from a tapestry.  He had a faint scar that ran 
from his left ear almost to his chin, but somehow that only managed to accentuate his 
rugged good looks.  He wore a golden breastplate imprinted with an engraving of 
crossed swords, the same symbol that was visible on his belt buckle, and a long cloak 
of matching cloth that looked almost like a tent was draped over his shoulders.  The 
weapon at his hip was a tallsword rather than the short, practical weapon used by the 
Border Wardens, and Keric didn’t need to touch it to know that it was spelled.
Keric’s eyes were drawn to the door in the far wall as the sound of a flourish of 
trumpets became audible from outside.  He couldn’t see through the windows that 
flanked the door, as thick curtains covered them, but Marthek nearly jumped as he 
turned toward the door.  “They’re starting!  It’s starting!”  Keric swallowed and rubbed 
smooth the front of his robe, and even Trave straightened, lifting his chin and adjusting 
his pouches.
“You’re like a litter of puppies,” Ashandra said, as she walked past them to the door. 
“Well, gentlemen?”
Keric was overwhelmed by the bright sunlight and the roar of noise from the crowd 
as he stepped through the door onto the open sward of the Quadrangle.  The temporary 
wooden bleachers that had been erected for the event were crowded full of people, and 
every window in the facing buildings was occupied, sometimes by three, four, or more 
people, some sitting on the sills facing outward.  Keric thought them foolish—they 
weren’t even nearly close enough to be able to see through the Viewing Pool—but he 
figured that the festivities of the event alone were probably excuse enough for most 
students to avoid work for one day.  He saw Iskanderon, Alis, and Draef on the edge of 
one of the bleachers, and returned their wave.  He followed his fellow competitors 
through the crowd to the space enclosed by the bleachers, where a small wooden 
platform had been set up.  He recognized the deans of the four schools of magic; Dean 
Zharis seemed to incline his head when his eyes met Keric’s, but it might have been his 
imagination.  All four loomed over the fifth person on the dais, who stood almost a head 
shorter than even the diminutive Dean Kalas of the gem mages, but the crowd quieted 
when he stepped forward.  Keric had never met Seris, but as he stood before the 
gathered multitude and addressed them, he thought he could understand how the 
famous Council mage had gotten his nickname.  Despite being short, squat, and utterly 
bald, there was a certain power to Sacreth’s most notable steel mage, and the name 
Paladin seemed to suit him utterly.
“Mages, competitors, students, guests,” the steel mage said, his voice booming 
through the Quadrangle, augmented by a minor spell.  “On behalf of the Mage Council 
and the faculty of the University, I welcome you to this year’s running of the Labyrinth.”
There was an outpouring of applause and eager shouts, and Keric was surprised to 
recognize a number of faculty members among those on the bleachers adding their 
approbation.  It seemed that no one was immune to the frenzy inspired by the Labyrinth 
competition.
He was so caught up in observing the crowd, he missed the next words from 
Paladin; he jumped slightly as his fellow competitors started forward, and hurried into 
place next to them facing the podium.
“The Labyrinth is a test not only of your magic, but of your wits, your skills, and your 
strength of will,” Paladin said.  For a moment his eyes met Keric’s, and the young mage 
felt a slight surge of power, almost as though his aura was being delved.  He blinked in 
surprise, and the moment passed.
“Competitors, take your places.”
Again Keric was in the rear as he followed the others to the left, where the Labyrinth 
waited.
He’d walked by the fountain dozens of times.  The water in the pool was still now, 
and the topper had been removed from the stone spigot in its center, leaving a cup-
shaped cradle almost an arm’s span across.  Resting in that cradle was the Labyrinth, a 
crystalline sphere that radiated a dim glow that was visible even in the bright sunlight.
Keric walked around the base of the pool until he came to his assigned position. 
Wooden planks had been laid on the edge of the pool at the four cardinal positions, 
each facing one of the four main buildings that fronted the Quadrangle.  The planks 
formed simple bridges to the center of the fountain, to the jut of stone that supported the 
Labyrinth.
For what seemed like a long time, Keric could only stare at it.  Here was magic, raw, 
potent, and old, very old.  He understood the basic theory of how it worked, and had 
read carefully the long passages in Joranther’s definitive study of the Labyrinth, but it 
was something else entirely to stand there looking at it, and to know that in a few 
moments, he would touch that magic personally.  No one had ever died from it as far as 
he knew, and injuries were rare within the Labyrinth, but he knew that all magic, even 
the most benign spells, always affected those who used it, and he wondered just what 
legacy this day would have for him.
He was so absorbed that he started in surprise as his rivals stepped up onto their 
bridges, and he hastily emulated them, nearly stumbling as the edge of his robe got 
caught under his foot.  That would really be a memorable start, he thought, the mental 
image of his overdressed self launching face-first into the Viewing Pool causing his face 
to go crimson.  But he recovered, and by the second step he’d caught up to the others, 
who approached the central sphere one step at a time.  He thought that it began to glow 
brighter as they drew nearer, but again it might have been an illusion; he could certainly 
feel its power now, but it wasn’t doing anything overt, just sitting there, waiting.
They paused directly in front of the sphere, close enough to touch it.  Keric felt a 
tingle as the preparatory spells were completed.  Paladin’s magic was quick and 
effective; there was no flash of light or tinkle of disembodied chimes, just a sudden 
wrenching that was gone as quickly as it arrived.  He looked down and saw that the 
surface of the pool no longer showed the reflected image of himself and the others on 
their makeshift bridges, but rather a vaulted chamber with floor and walls of gleaming 
white stone, lit by bright lamps that shone in diamond-shaped niches in the walls.  In 
just a few moments, it would show himself and his fellow competitors as well.
“Good luck to you, mages,” came Paladin’s voice.  Keric could no longer see him or 
the others; the sphere had brightened now, and it seemed to grow in front of him, filling 
his vision.
He closed his eyes, reached out, and entered the Labyrinth.
* * * * *
Chapter 3
As the competitors entered the Labyrinth, the crowd watching from the bleachers 
leaned forward to stare down into the Viewing Pool.  First-year students in plain tunics 
rushed forward to remove the crossing boards from the pool.  The Labyrinth crystal 
continued to glow, but dimly now, with faint patterns of light that seemed to trickle within 
its depths like currents of water.
A figure clad in a gray robe, its cowl up despite the heat of the day, emerged around 
the edge of one of the bleachers.  He walked bent over like an old man, and as he 
made his way toward the pool, one of the guardsmen on duty noticed him and stepped 
forward to block him.  The man made a gesture, and the guard froze.  Stepping past the 
paralyzed man, the robed figure threw off his garment and straightened, revealing a 
startling appearance to the gathered crowd.
He was lean and dark, his torso bare save for a harness of black leather that 
covered his chest and arms with interlocking strips.  His skin shone with a sheen of 
sweat, and was decorated with odd designs, tattoos that could not fully obscure the 
marks of dozens of scars that covered his frame.  His beard was narrow and trimmed to 
a point in the style of the Sokhali far to the south, and he wore a skullcap of battered 
metal that shone brightly in the intense sunlight.
A stir ran through the crowd as the newcomer turned in place, lifting his arms as he 
scanned the gathered folk before settling his gaze on the mages atop the platform.  The 
deans had risen to their feet as soon as he had appeared, and now watched him with 
expressions that ranged from surprise to anger.
“So-called wizards of Sacreth!” the intruder announced, his voice booming naturally 
without the aid of magic.  “I challenge the legitimacy of this competition!  Your leaders 
insult you with their weak and limited definition of magic!  They hide the truth from you!”
“And what truth is that, Kaavan Zorr?” Dean Corinther returned.  The elderly shield 
mage leaned against Dean Zharis for support, and his voice was feeble in contrast to 
the intruder, but the old man still carried an aura of power and authority about him. 
“Yes, we remember who you are, exile!  You dare to return here, with your forbidden 
arts and vile arguments?”
Zorr laughed.  “You fear what you do not understand, you old fool!  But I will show 
you, you and your charges, the next generation of mages.  I demand the right to 
represent my school of magic in your Labyrinth!”
Seris stepped forward, and where Corinther’s aura was one of stately dignity, the 
Paladin spoke with barely-constrained fire.  “Blood magic is forbidden in Sacreth, and 
with good reason!  When you were banished from the Valley Kingdom ten years ago, 
you were told that you returned only at your peril!  Guards, arrest him!”
A dozen guards had slowly closed a ring around the exiled mage while he had 
issued his challenge, and now they rushed forward to apprehend him.  But Zorr reached 
down and drew out a short curved knife from a hidden pocket.  The blade was only a 
few inches long, but the blood mage did not intend to use it as a weapon against the 
approaching men.  Instead he lifted an arm and drew the knife across his own flesh, 
opening a deep gash that sprayed droplets of blood as he swept the injured limb in a 
wide arc in front of him.  The guardsmen hesitated, just for a moment, but that was long 
enough for Zorr to work his magic.
Sinuous black tendrils snapped up like whips from the ground, emerging from the 
spots where the mage’s blood had fallen.  The guards cried out as the tendrils lashed 
around their bodies, twisting and tightening until they held them immobile.  Their clubs 
and staves had no effect on the tendrils, passing through them as though they were 
vapor, but when they touched flesh they were as tough as leather, constricting around 
the guards like serpents.
As cries of panic and alarm spread through the crowd, Zorr reached into a pouch at 
his hip and drew out a small object, which he hurled in the direction of the platform of 
notables.  The object, barely larger than a clenched fist, landed with a sick squelching 
sound on the compacted grass.  It glistened wetly there, a bloody heart, still quivering 
with some terrible animative force.
The ground shook, and something else erupted from the sward where the heart had 
fallen.  The huge tentacle dwarfed the black tendrils of Zorr’s earlier spell; this one rose 
a full ten strides into the air, and it was so thick around at the base that two men might 
have had difficulty touching hands around it.  It was covered in a mottled green hide that 
glistened with a rank slickness, and as the tentacle extended fully into the air, a bulb at 
its tip split open to reveal snapping jaws full of rending teeth.  A terrible noise issued 
from it, a challenge of destruction.
Men and women were fleeing in every direction, but on the platform, the senior 
mages held their ground.  The tentacle slammed down to crush them, but Dean 
Corinther lifted a golden amulet in the form of a shield, shouting defiance in the ancient 
language of magic.  As the amulet flared with light a golden aura sprang into being 
around the platform.  The tentacle hit that glow and rebounded, a hissing noise 
escaping from its jaws as it assaulted the barrier again without effect.
Paladin sprang forward.  He was unarmed, but as he leapt from the edge of the 
platform, he extended his hand toward one of the imprisoned guards.  The man’s sword 
shot out from its scabbard and flew unerringly into the steel mage’s hand.  The stout 
mage passed through the golden glow and dropped into a forward tumble as he landed, 
coming up next to the base of the huge tentacle.  The sword lashed out, and there was 
a ringing noise like the sound of a clapper striking a bell as the weapon tore deeply into 
the substance of the tentacle.  Black ichor hissed from the wound, but Paladin dodged 
the ugly spray, which burned the green grass that it touched to char.
The alien conjuration responded, the snapping jaws darting down toward the mage, 
but Paladin moved in a blur, and the bulbous head slammed onto vacant ground, the 
long teeth tearing vicious gouges in the sod.  The steel mage struck again, stabbing the 
sword deep into the rubbery texture of the tentacle, his face twisted with focus as he 
dragged the sword through it, tearing a ring around its girth.  More of the black ooze 
spurted out, searing his arm and shoulder, but he didn’t stop until he’d completely 
bisected the thing.  As he drew back the tentacle toppled over, almost crushing one of 
the bleachers, thankfully missing the few students that hadn’t yet fled the area.  It was 
already starting to dissolve as it hit the ground, and within a few heartbeats, it was gone, 
leaving only a smoking hole in the ground and the black marks on the grass to indicate 
it had ever existed at all.
The other mages had not been idle during the brief battle.  Even as the tentacle-
thing died, Dean Kalas triggered a spell-gem, the faceted stone flaring with light as the 
magic stored inside it was released.  The head of the school of gem magic directed that 
light in a beam that slashed across the field, doing no harm to the men it touched, but 
cutting through the black tendrils like an impossibly-sharp knife.  The guardsmen 
staggered back, free now but still wary of the blood mage.
Zorr lifted his bloody knife to unleash another spell, but even as he began his 
conjuration, Ayas, Dean of Steel Magic, launched her own attack.  She drew a small 
metal object from her belt, which snapped open into a tri-blade with wickedly sharp 
edges.  She threw the weapon with a smooth motion, and it spun in a curving arc that 
took it around several of the guardsmen, streaking unerringly through their circle until it 
caught the blood mage in the shoulder, one of the sharp prongs biting deep into his 
flesh.  The impact knocked Zorr off his feet, and he grunted as he landed hard on his 
back.
Dean Zharis had unrolled a scroll from the compact case attached to his belt, and he 
uttered the words of magic inscribed there, each rune flashing and disappearing as its 
power was triggered.  A cube fashioned out of glowing bars of light materialized around 
the fallen blood mage, imprisoning him within.
The guards approached the magical cage warily, but kept their distance.  They made 
room for Paladin as the short mage stepped forward.  Ugly black marks covered his 
arms and torso where the splatter from the conjured tentacle had burned away his tunic 
and scored his flesh, but he betrayed no hint of pain as he fixed a cold gaze at the fallen 
blood mage.
Zorr had reached up to grab the tri-blade, and with a groan tore it free from his 
shoulder.  His fingers were deeply gashed by the other blades in the process, but like 
the steel mage, he did not seem to feel pain in the same manner of other men.  Or 
perhaps, he had become inured to it.
Sensing the presence of the other, he stirred himself and rose, the bloody weapon 
still held in his hand.
“You would be wise to stay down,” Paladin said.  “A healer will attend to your 
wounds.”
“So you can hang me intact?  I think not.”  He laughed, a grim, nasty sound.  “I think 
that you Sacrethans still have a lot to learn about the true meaning of power.  You will 
pay for your hubris with the blood of your young ones!”
Paladin tensed, but when the blood mage lunged, he went not toward the steel 
mage, but against the far side of the cage.  He lifted the bloody hand still clutching the 
tri-blade, and as droplets of his blood hit the glowing bars they tore slashes in the 
barrier.  He struck the cage himself a moment later, and with a sizzling flash he tore 
through, staggering as he reached the far side.  The closest guards rushed toward him, 
but with another sweep of his bloody hands the men were flung from their feet, as if 
struck by a ram.  Paladin was already charging around the cage to block Zorr’s escape, 
but too late he realized that escape was not the mage’s intent.
Zorr leapt up onto the edge of the Viewing Pool.  Paladin lunged for him, but the 
blood mage was faster, and before anyone could intervene he plunged one of the tri-
blade’s bloody prongs into his chest, piercing his skin, the slender blade driving 
between two of his ribs and into his heart.  He toppled forward, landing with a splash 
into the water of the pool.
Paladin grabbed Zorr’s boots before he could drift out of reach, and with 
considerable strength dragged him clear of the pool.  A bright plume of red had already 
spread from his body, however, and as the steel mage watched, it continued to expand, 
roiling through the water like thunderclouds.  The other deans arrived at his side, but 
there was nothing they could do to stop the workings of the blood mage’s death-spell. 
The plume spread to fill the entire pool, dissolving until the waters cleared enough for 
them to see once more into the Labyrinth, their view still tainted by a faint tinge of red. 
The light from the crystal had dimmed, and the striations within pulsed erratically, 
almost as though something inside was trying to get out.
“What has he done?” Kalas asked.
“We have to get them out of there,” Zharis said.  Ayas and Kalas were already 
grabbing one of the discarded boards, and together they laid it down to form a bridge to 
the crystal.  Paladin jumped onto it as soon it was settled, and crossed to the sphere. 
He lifted a hand toward it, and incanted the spell that would release those inside.
There was a flare of light, and the mage staggered back, clutching his hand.  Paladin 
cursed and turned again to the crystal, but before he could try again, Corinther 
forestalled him.  “Do not bother, Seris.  The curse is too strong; even if you could 
overpower the ward, you would only disrupt the stability of the Labyrinth itself, and 
almost certainly risk the lives of our young mages along with it.”
“There has to be something we can do!” Kalas said, as Paladin retreated back 
across the bridge to join them.
“Corinther’s right,” Paladin said.  “We cannot cleanse the Labyrinth while people are 
inside it.”
“What about a counterspell?” Ayas asked.
Paladin nodded.  “Get as many of your senior mages here as you can, and we’ll 
need to send word to the Council as well.”  But as the five mages looked at each other, 
they each saw the same truth in the others’ eyes; even if they could undo the blood 
mage’s final spell, it would take time.  And time had suddenly become their enemy.
Zharis stared down at the scene visible through the Viewing Pool.  The portal was 
one-way only, and did not transmit sound.  He could see their charges, but couldn’t 
speak to them, couldn’t warn them of what was coming.  “Get out of there,” he 
whispered, willing them to hear him.  “Get yourselves out of there.”
* * * * *
Chapter 4
Keric groaned and sat up, holding his head, where it felt as though a gang of miners 
had gone to work on the inside of his skull with pickaxes.  “What happened?”
Whatever had affected him, the others were clearly feeling it as well.  He was the 
only one to have fallen down, but Ashandra was leaning against the wall, clearly relying 
on the stone for support, and Trave was on his knees.  Only Marthek was still standing 
unassisted, but even he looked decidedly unsteady.
“We’re in the Labyrinth,” he said, trying to ignore the pounding in his head.  Marthek 
offered him a hand, which he accepted gratefully.  The room swirled around him slightly 
as he stood, but he was able to stay on his feet without help.
“Where else?” Ashandra said.  With deliberation she stepped away from the wall, 
although she still looked pale.
Keric looked around.  The small foyer where they were standing looked like the room 
he’d seen through the Viewing Pool, but slightly… different.  The whitestone blocks that 
made up the walls were gray and dingy, covered with a thin film that might have been 
dirt or soot.  The lamps in the wall niches still shed light, but their flames were weak, 
fitful, struggling as though a faint gust might extinguish them completely.  The four 
archways that provided egress from the room also looked somehow off, although he 
couldn’t quite put his finger on the problem.  His eyes rose to the capstones above each 
arch, each marked with a different design that matched the symbols they wore on their 
belt buckles.
“Something’s wrong,” he said.
“There is always some disorientation when entering the Labyrinth,” Trave said.  “It is 
a byproduct of our bodies adjusting to the altered reality present within an 
extradimensional space.  But I have to admit, it was never this bad before.”
“Maybe the Paladin’s skills are overrated,” Ashandra said.  She turned toward the 
arch that bore the shield icon.  “We might as well get this business over with.”
“Maybe we’d better stay together,” Keric suggested.  “I know we’re supposed to face 
the challenges individually, but if there is something wrong…”
“If there was, wouldn’t they have pulled us out?” Ashandra countered.
Trave nodded.  “This could be part of the test,” he said.
“What do you think, Marthek?” Keric asked.
The golden-haired knight frowned.  “I don’t know.  I don’t like it, though.”
Ashandra let out a derisive snort.  “Well, you boys can huddle around here until 
mommy and daddy come to rescue you, but I still intend to win this thing.”  She seemed 
to have recovered her equilibrium fully, and even Keric could feel his headache fading. 
Before any of them could comment, she stepped forward and vanished through the 
arch.
Trave shrugged.  “The Labyrinth can be a rough experience, but it’s not lethal,” the 
gem mage said.  “Good luck, gentlemen.”  With a nod at Marthek and Keric, he walked 
through the arch that matched his sigil.
Keric looked at Marthek, who shrugged and did the same.  The scroll mage stood 
there alone for another few heartbeats, then took a steadying breath and turned to the 
arch meant for him.
The darkness of the archway gave way to a staircase of deep stone steps that 
descended in a slight curve.  He almost stopped to conjure a light, but then saw that 
there was a bright glow coming from the foot of the stairs.  He was almost fully 
recovered from his earlier disorientation, but he still made his way down slowly and 
carefully, with one hand on the inner wall.
As he approached the bottom of the staircase he could see that it culminated in a 
broad landing.  The walls were decorated with arcane symbols that looked almost as 
though they had been hacked into the stone.  He couldn’t decipher any of the symbols, 
but somehow they filled him with a vague sense of disquiet.  The glow originated 
through another open archway on the far side of the landing, where another, larger 
chamber could be seen beyond.
Keric stopped there at the base of the stairs, and opened his case of scrolls.  He’d 
already rearranged them in the most probable order he’d need them, so it only took a 
moment to withdraw the one he wanted.  Turning so that the glow from the chamber fell 
upon the writing, he incanted the spell stored upon the parchment.  Using a scroll 
scribed by someone else always felt different than his own work, with each mage’s 
magic feeling as distinct and unique as a fingerprint.  But the spell was one with which 
he was quite familiar, and it gave him no difficulty.  Within ten seconds he’d completed 
it, and he felt a tingling that spread across his body, sharpening until it was just shy of 
painful before it faded.  The warding was invisible, but he could feel it there, its power 
lying quiescent upon him until it was needed.  It would fade in a few hours in any case, 
but he hoped to be well clear of the Labyrinth by then.
He took out a second scroll and cast it as well, adding a warding for mental 
protection on top of the physical defense he’d just enacted.  That spell went easily as 
well, but as he triggered it he felt a sudden wave of disorientation sweep over him. 
Keric stood there and weathered it, breathing in deep and steady breaths until the 
dizziness faded.
With his wards in place, he started toward the arch.  The room beyond was not as 
big as he’d first thought, a square maybe six and a half strides on a side.  The glow 
came from bright globes set into the corners of the room just above eye-level.  Below 
them, Keric could see four stone pedestals that jutted from the walls like teeth.  Atop 
each pedestal was an irregularly-shaped piece of metal.  On the far side of the room 
was the apparent exit, a slab of stone of a slightly different color than the blocks that 
made up the walls.  There was a small round opening in the door, ringed with some sort 
of silvery metal, and something else beneath it, a marking or design that he couldn’t 
quite make out from across the room.
So his first trial would be a puzzle, then.  He started forward into the room, but 
hesitated in the archway.  Aware that he was being watched and judged, still he 
lingered there a moment, thinking.  Ashandra might be the sort to charge forward, 
trusting to her talent and her magic to keep her safe from whatever traps she triggered, 
but Keric had always been more deliberate.  It didn’t seem like the Labyrinth was the 
best place to change his habits.
Finally he drew back, and opened his scroll case again.  He paused again over the 
next scroll, considering his options.
Layering was one of the more intricate hazards of working magic.  Spells were 
extremely complex things, and even when they were designed to work in conjunction, it 
was very easy for even an experienced wizard to miscast a spell that was layered on 
another already in effect.  Keric had once successfully layered four spells, but they had 
all been his own work, and it had been in the controlled environment of a classroom at 
the University.  The magic of the Labyrinth itself wasn’t supposed to interfere with the 
workings of the wizards participating in the competition, but it was becoming 
increasingly clear to him that something was wrong, either by design or accident. 
Making assumptions in such circumstances was… dangerous.
But when it came down to it, he decided that he would rather take risks now, before 
he’d placed himself in the midst of a trial.  He took out a third scroll from the case, took 
a deep breath, and incanted the spell inscribed upon the parchment.
His head began to spin almost at once, even before he had finished the first line.  He 
completed the spell through sheer determination, but as the magic flashed around him, 
he staggered and nearly fell.  Only the cold hard stone of the archway supported him, 
and he clung to it for stability as the walls spun and distorted around him.  The bright 
glow coming from the room sent daggers of pain into his skull, and he closed his eyes, 
groaning as he fought through the pulsating waves of nausea.
After an interminable span of time had passed, he stirred and opened his eyes.  For 
the briefest moment he could not remember where he was, then memory and 
awareness returned in a sudden jarring surge.
Slowly he stood, keeping the fingers of one hand connected to the wall in case he 
needed the support again.  But he could stand, if a bit unsteadily.
The room on the far side of the arch was as it had been before, but its contents had 
slid into sharp detail.  He could now clearly see the markings in the door, and the 
narrow slit underneath them.  The round opening in the top of the door ringed by the 
silver metal was not a keyhole, as he’d first thought, but a spigot of some type, probably 
for the inevitable trap.  He still couldn’t make out the full details of the metal objects on 
the platforms in the corners, except that each appeared to be made out of a different 
metal, and they were cut into different patterns, flat disks with jagged edges like oddly-
spaced and sized teeth.
Keys, then.  No doubt if he slid the incorrect one into the door, something bad came 
out of the spigot.
There was something else, something that seemed wrong, but which he couldn’t 
quite identify at first even with the boost to his senses from the perception-enhancing 
Heightening spell he’d just cast.  The spell could cause some minor distortions, and with 
the combined effects of the layering and the odd problems with the Labyrinth, those 
could be expected.  But as Keric studied the room, he realized that when he quickly 
shifted his attention from one side of the room to the other, faint red trails were visible in 
his peripheral vision, glowing tracks that faded to nothing when he turned his full 
attention upon them.  Frowning, he studied the phenomenon for a minute longer, but did 
not learn anything further.
You’re procrastinating, he told himself.  He couldn’t gain anything more from 
standing in the doorway, so he turned to the nearest pedestal on his left and started into 
the room.
He’d been ready for just about anything, but he hadn’t expected the trap to trigger 
instantly; midway through his second step through the arch the spigot on the door 
flared, and a stream of fire shot unerringly across the room to engulf him in a violent, 
raging maelstrom of flame.
Keric fell back against the wall of the room as the flames roared over him.  He cried 
out as he huddled there, just for a moment, while panic nearly claimed him.  He couldn’t 
see, couldn’t feel anything except for a rising heat.  The thought of his skin charring to 
black finally shook him to action, and clutching the wall of the room he staggered back 
to the archway.  The flames followed him, and he could feel the heat beginning to sear 
his skin as his magical shield was overwhelmed.  With another cry he dove forward 
through the arch and rolled clear, crawling until he ran into the first step of the staircase.
He just lay there for a while, breathing in deep gulps of air.  The flames had stopped, 
but he could smell the acrid tang of char, probably from his clothes.  The skin on his 
back was raw and tender, but it could have been a lot worse; he had no doubt 
whatsoever that without his warding, the flame trap would have killed him.
Moving slowly, he rose to a seated position and checked himself over.  The ornate 
robe was a wreck, but at least it had offered some modicum of protection against the 
trap.  He stripped it off and tossed it aside.  It was a bit cool in just his vest and trousers
—an odd feeling after being nearly roasted alive—but he welcomed the freedom of 
mobility gained by discarding the robe.  Then he felt a momentary panic as he realized 
that his scroll case was gone.
He found it a moment later, just barely inside the archway.  His fears were confirmed 
as he picked it up.  The exterior of the case had been blackened with char, and even 
before he opened it and saw the damage to the seal he knew what he would find.
The scrolls themselves were mostly intact.  But even the slight crinkling on the 
edges of the parchments had been enough.  He checked each one just to be sure, but 
even before he unrolled them he could tell, could sense that the magic stored on them 
was gone, disrupted by the fire, or maybe by the magic of the Labyrinth, which he could 
no longer deny had somehow turned against them.
His Heightening spell was still in effect, sharpening his hearing, so he quite clearly 
heard the distant cry that echoed down from the staircase above.  The voice was 
familiar, as was the sound of pain and terror that filled it.  This time he didn’t take time to 
think, and was charging up the stairs even as the shout abruptly and permanently 
ended.
* * * * *
Chapter 5
Keric hesitated only briefly in the foyer where they had first arrived.  All of the arched 
exits were dark, but he knew where the shout had come from.  Wary now, he passed 
through the dark opening, into a tunnel that curved slightly ahead to the left.  Again he 
paused, and with a start remembered the scrolls he held in his wallet.  He reached 
under his vest; yes, it was still there, in his pocket.  He considered going back to the 
foyer to see if they were intact, but he remembered the pain in that shout he’d heard, 
and he hurried forward, one hand against the wall to guide him.
As the darkness deepened he again considered going back, if only to summon light 
before proceeding, but again a glow became visible ahead before it became too black to 
see.  The arch and the glow were almost identical to those he had encountered earlier, 
and he crept forward slowly, alert for another trap.
The room was similar, but the nature of the trial had clearly been different in this 
case.  The blackened wreckage of some sort of apparatus of metal and stone 
dominated the center of the room, with pieces of it strewn about the floor.  There were 
six doors in the wall, heavy constructions of wooden planks reinforced with banded iron. 
It was obvious which one the other mage had taken; Keric crossed the room—giving the 
destroyed construct a wide berth—and looked through the opening where the blasted 
door had stood.  A few fragments of wood still clung to the twisted pieces of metal that 
hung from the warped hinges, but the rest of the door was just scattered splinters and 
fragments of iron.  He was unsure whether the door had been destroyed by a trap or 
sundered by the wizard’s magic; the lingering aura there was so strong that he could 
almost taste it in the air, but there was no time to stop for a Delving, and little to be 
gained by it in any case.
A short, straight passage was on the far side of the broken door, progressing for 
maybe twenty strides before opening onto another room.  The walls and floor were 
plain, unadorned stone.  A limp form lay on the floor.  Keric hurried over to it, and pulled 
the body over to see Trave’s dead eyes staring up at him.
It was easy to see what had killed him.  The gash across his throat was deep, so 
deep that it had scored the bones of his spine.  It took an effort for Keric to examine the 
terrible wound, but once he did, he quickly realized what was wrong.  There was almost 
no blood.  The gem mage’s skin was pale, almost white, and while the interior of the 
wound was red, the separated skin bright like a twisted parody of open lips, the cuts 
should have unleashed a terrible spray as the primary vessels delivering and retrieving 
blood to and from the brain were opened.  It was almost like looking at a cadaver that 
had been meticulously prepared for study, and the young mage shuddered at it.
“What… what happened?”
The voice caused him to almost jump out of his skin, and he looked up to see 
Ashandra standing there, staring at him in horror.  He saw that she mastered herself 
quickly, gathering in the fear and thrusting it behind an iron mask of control.  She 
needn’t have bothered; he knew exactly what she was feeling, and didn’t even bother to 
try to hide the cold terror that clenched in his guts.
“He was murdered,” he heard himself saying.  Almost reflexively he scanned the rest 
of the body.  He wasn’t entirely surprised to find the gem mage’s pouches gone, along 
with the enchanted stones they had carried.
“Marthek?”
He stared at her for a moment before he realized what she was suggesting.  “That’s 
crazy.”
“His throat, it was slashed open.”
“Yes, but it was no ordinary weapon that did that.  The Labyrinth, there’s… there’s 
something here, something wrong here.”  That much was obvious; people didn’t die in 
the Labyrinth.  When a trial was failed, competitors were ejected, sometimes somewhat 
the worse for wear, but alive.  Its creators had built it as a testing tool, not some mad 
engine of torture.  There were some scholars who argued that you couldn’t die in the 
Labyrinth, and the archives were full of accounts of past competitions where mages had 
been ejected after daring and incredibly dangerous actions, daredevil stunts, 
uncontrolled eruptions of wild magic, and the like.  As far as he knew from all of the 
records he had studied, Trave’s death was the first such loss of life in the entire history 
of the Labyrinth.
He looked up at her, expecting a protest, but after a moment she nodded.  He 
noticed something else as well, and stood.  “You’re hurt?  What happened?”
Ashandra shook her head.  “Imps.  Conjured in my first trial.  They were… they were 
more violent than I had expected, caught me off guard.  I’m fine.”  She walked around 
him, to the other side of Trave, but couldn’t hide her limp, or the flecks of blood visible 
along the gashes in the skirt of her dress.  “I have a lesser Healing spell,” he said, and 
started to reach for his wallet.
“Save it,” she said.  “We may need it later.”
He nodded.  “We have to find Marthek.”  Ashandra didn’t look up, staring down at 
the body.  “Ashandra?”
She started and met his eyes.  “Right.  Yes, of course.  I… I’m sorry, Keric.  For 
doubting you, before.  You were right.”
“It doesn’t matter now,” he said.  “We have to find Marthek, and get out of here. 
Before whatever did that to him finds us.”
The two of them were quiet as they returned to the entry foyer and headed through 
the arch marked with the crossed-swords sigil of the steel mages.  There was another 
staircase on the far side, this one heading up.  Keric offered a hand to Ashandra, but 
she shook him off.  Her face was twisted into a grimace and her limp was getting worse, 
but it was clear that she was not going to accept his help.
“What happened to your robe?” she asked him, as they made their way up the stairs. 
Like the one Keric had taken down earlier, this one curved slightly as they ascended.
“Burned.  Fire trap.  It got most of my scrolls as well, I’m afraid.”
“What?  You didn’t have a shield up?”
“If I hadn’t had a warding, I wouldn’t be here now,” he shot back, defensive of his 
magic despite all that had happened.  They could see the glow up ahead now, and 
hastened their pace.
“Sorry,” she said.  “This is… this isn’t…”
“Don’t worry about it,” he said.  “We have bigger problems.”
The landing at the top of the stairs had the now-familiar arch, and the same small 
room beyond.  The signs of Marthek’s passage were immediately obvious.  The 
shattered remnants of several suits of armor were scattered around the floor.  From 
what Keric could tell from the wreckage, the suits had been occupied by mannequins of 
wood and straw.  And magic, most likely, automatons that had sought to block the steel 
mage’s progress.  With his enhanced vision he scanned the floor, looking for drops of 
blood or any other sign that Marthek had been injured.  He didn’t see anything, but he 
remembered Trave’s body, and remembered that he couldn’t make any assumptions 
here.
Ashandra crossed the room to the single exit, a recessed doorway warded only by a 
curtain of plain woolen cloth.  “What are you doing?” Keric asked.
“It seems likely that he went this way,” she responded.
“Be careful,” he said, hurrying over to her.  But by then she had already reached out 
and pulled the drape aside, revealing only another passage on the far side.
“I am not exactly defenseless,” she said.  But she was nervous, Keric could see that, 
despite her disciplined outward mask.
They made their way down the corridor.  After about twenty strides, they came to a 
short flight of steps that descended into a long hall.  The hall was narrow, only slightly 
wider than the passage, but it extended for a good thirty strides ahead, with a vaulted 
ceiling buttressed by massive arches of rough-hewn stone.  Lamps hung from niches 
along the walls, their flickering light more than strong enough to reveal the trial set here 
for them.
“Uh oh,” Ashandra said.
The floor was covered with a matrix of marble tiles, each about a pace across.  The 
tiles were covered with sigils, etched in streaks of color embedded in the stone.  Each 
sigil was unique, or at least it looked that way from their vantage; even with his 
enhanced sight Keric couldn’t quite distinguish those on the far side of the hall.  On the 
far side of the tiled floor, a matching stair led up to another passage that exited the 
place.
“Those sigils aren’t based on any magical nomenclature with which I am familiar,” 
Ashandra said.
“No,” Keric said.  Careful not to touch the nearest tiles, or even extend any part of 
his body over them, he knelt on the lowest step and studied them.  There was 
something familiar about them, something he couldn’t quite place.  He tried to make 
sense of the pattern of tiles, at least the nearer ones, looking for relationships between 
the sigils,
“Well, we’re going to have to try something,” Ashandra said, after Keric’s silence had 
extended for almost a minute.  “We can’t just stand here.”
Keric lifted a hand to forestall her, but didn’t look up.  “Marthek made it through here; 
he must have solved the pattern.”
“He’s a soldier,” Ashandra said.  “Maybe he just bulled through…”
“Wait,” Keric said.  “You’re right, he’s a soldier.”  He nodded as something clicked in 
his memory.  “These sigils… they have nothing to do with magic at all, they are military 
symbols, the sigils used by units in the army.  Historical, I think, back from the days of 
the great empires.”
“Military history is not exactly my strong point,” she said.  “I don’t suppose you know 
what they mean?”
“No, but Marthek did.”  Keric was already taking out his wallet, and he extracted one 
of his few remaining scrolls.  He spread it out on the flat top of the stone balustrade that 
edged the stairs, holding it down while he studied it.  He’d written the scroll himself, and 
knew the runes almost as well as he knew his own name, but what he would do here 
would require a bit of subtlety.
She glanced over his shoulder.  “What are you casting?”
“A lesser Delving,” he said.
She frowned, not understanding at first what he was doing, but knowing enough not 
to interrupt him further as he read the scroll and worked its magic.  Once again he felt 
the stabbing disorientation of the layering effect, but it was not as severe as before; the 
Delving did affect his perceptions, but the bulk of the magic was extended outward into 
his surroundings.
As he finished the spell, he closed his eyes and reached out with his mind.  After a 
few moments of concentration, he opened his eyes and stared out across the room.
At first, all he could see was red.  The subtle currents he’d detected on the edges of 
his perceptions before were bright and obvious now, tendrils of corruption that were 
visible everywhere: on the floor and walls, floating in the air, even seeping down from 
the ceiling like hanging vines.  He had to control a brief sensation of revulsion as some 
of them touched him; he couldn’t feel anything, of course, and they had to have been 
there since they’d entered the Labyrinth, but the sight still filled him with dread.
Ashandra noted his reaction.  “What is it?  What do you see?”
It wouldn’t do any good to share what the Delving had revealed to him, so he didn’t 
answer at once, focusing instead on the floor of the hall ahead.  It took intense 
concentration to filter through the red haze, but when he finally found the trail left by 
Marthek’s aura, the faint golden flickers made a clear path across the room.  If anything, 
the omnipresent red corruption made the path easier to follow, as the steel mage’s 
traces were bright and pure by comparison.
“I found it,” he said.  “The aural traces are still strong.  He must not be far ahead of 
us.”
He took a deep breath, and stepped onto the first tile indicated by the golden trail. 
Nothing happened, and he let out the breath with relief.  “Follow me, step exactly where 
I step,” he told Ashandra.
“Right behind you.”
They made it across without incident.  The pattern made by the military runes 
remained a mystery to Keric, but he realized that to Marthek they must have created 
some sort of map, a trail of history that led across the hall to safety.  He wondered what 
danger lurked under the other tiles, but decided that he could live with that mystery 
remaining unsolved.
Keric sagged against the balustrade on the far stairs.  His head swam from the effort 
of maintaining his concentration on the Delving for that long.  Ashandra touched his 
arm.  “Are you all right?”
He nodded.  “This isn’t… exactly… a casual walk… through the Quadrangle,” he 
said.
She managed a smile.  “No, not exactly.”
It took a supreme effort, but he straightened, pushing off from the balustrade.  Faint 
smears of red had been left on the stone where his hands had touched, but as the 
Delving faded, they slowly dissolved from his view.  He knew that the corruption that 
suffused the Labyrinth was still there, however.
“Come on,” he said.  “Let’s find Marthek.”
* * * * *
Chapter 6
They found the steel mage quickly enough.  The stairs that ascended from the 
marble hall gave way onto another passage, one that bent to the left around several 
turns, until the corridor should have twisted back onto itself.  The two mages shared a 
look, but they already knew that the Labyrinth didn’t obey normal rules, and there was 
no sense in wasting time pondering the impossible.
The passage jerked to the left once more, and ended in an arch that should have 
been a dead-end, or opened onto the corridor they’d just traversed.  Instead, looking 
through the arch revealed another spacious, brightly-lit chamber, divided into a foyer 
and a slightly higher annex on the far side, with six thick pillars separating the two.  A 
broad staircase led up to the annex.
Standing in front of the stairs was Marthek.
Ashandra and Keric could instantly see that something was wrong; the steel mage 
was standing awkwardly, as if he’d been frozen in mid-step.  A faint halo of light 
surrounded him, and as they looked up, they could see that the pillars were topped by 
glowing golden spheres, shining so brightly that they almost could not look at them 
directly.
“Paralysis field,” Ashandra said.  She took out an amulet from one of the hidden 
pockets in her dress.  “I should be able to get through, but I don’t know that I’ll be able 
to drag Marthek clear.”
“Hold on a moment,” Keric said.  He scanned the room, but it was difficult to see with 
the brilliant light of the spheres filling the room.  He took out one of his last scrolls, but 
instead of opening it to read, he kept it rolled, and looked through it.  With the glare of 
the globes thus reduced, he could see that there was another arched exit on the far side 
of the chamber, in the rear of the raised annex, and something else as well; a lever 
jutted from the wall near the arch.
“There,” he said, handing the scroll to Ashandra so that she could see it.  “A 
triggering mechanism, I believe.”
“Well then,” she said.  “I’ll just go over there and deactivate it.”
“And if your ward cannot withstand the field?  Then there are two of you trapped.”
“And your alternative idea?  Unless you have a scroll of telekinetic manipulation in 
that wallet there.”
“You know that I do not; no student could manage such a working.”
“Then it is up to me.”  Her expression softened slightly, and she reached out a hand 
to touch Keric’s arm.  “Trust me; when it comes to this sort of thing, I do know what I’m 
doing.”
He nodded.  The shield mage affixed the amulet to the front of her dress, directly 
beneath her throat.  She touched it with the index fingers and thumbs of both of her 
hands, closed her eyes for a moment, and incanted a brief triggering phrase.  Keric’s 
Delving had faded, but he could still perceive the subtle shift to her aura, and could feel 
how strong the warding was.
But as she stepped boldly forward into the room, he wondered if it would be enough.
The golden glow that held Marthek captive erupted around her before she’d covered 
three steps into the room.  Faint at first, it steadily brightened with each step she took, 
until a golden nimbus shone around her, an echo of the light radiating from the spheres 
above.  Ashandra kept walking forward, passed Marthek without slowing, reached the 
steps leading up to the annex.  There she faltered, stumbling slightly on the steps.  The 
glow was pulsing at her now, battering at her defenses, and Keric could see the 
physical reaction; the shield mage was bending low, as though a heavy weight was 
being dropped onto her shoulders, and she raised her arms above her head as if to 
protect it from the deluge.  Keric wanted to shout encouragement, but knew better than 
to distract her; all he could do was watch and hope.
Ashandra reached the top of the stairs and staggered forward into the annex.  A 
deep, guttural sound came from her throat, and she drifted right, then left, nearly losing 
her balance.  Golden flashes exploded around her, obscuring her from view, then Keric 
heard a furious yell of defiance, and the light abruptly died.  He felt a momentary surge 
of panic as darkness surrounded him; the image of Trave’s dead body filled his 
thoughts, and he could imagine who or whatever had killed him coming for him, striking 
him down before he even knew it was there.
“Ashandra?” he asked, tentatively.
“Light,” came a tired voice in response.  The voice belonged to Marthek, not 
Ashandra, and in response a dim glow appeared around the steel mage, the illumination 
coming from his drawn sword.  The steel mage’s face was lined with exhaustion, but he 
held the blade up proudly, and its tip did not waver in the slightest.
“Ashandra,” Keric said, rushing toward the far exit.  Marthek followed, and as the 
light from his sword spread, they could see the shield mage slumped against the wall 
under the lever.  Keric felt a momentary stab of fear before she stirred her head and 
looked up at him.
“Remind me not to volunteer to do that again,” she said.
“Are you all right?  Can you stand?” Keric asked.
“I don’t quite know,” she said.  This time she accepted his hand, and did not shrug 
off his steadying grip once she was back on her feet.  She nodded at Marthek.  “How 
are you, soldier?”
“I will survive.”  He looked them over, taking in their condition with a single weighing 
glance.  “I take it that the Labyrinth has been cheating with you as well,” he said. 
“Where is Trave?”
“Dead,” Keric said.  “We found his body near the entry.”
“Dead?  Then this contest has become one of survival.”  The young steel mage 
seemed to take strength from the realization, standing straighter, the brightness of the 
glow coming from his sword intensifying slightly.
“I think that whatever is corrupting the Labyrinth, it is getting stronger,” Keric said. 
“We need to find the way out, and quickly.”  He looked at Ashandra.  “Can you 
continue?”
“I guess I’d better, no?”  She turned to the exit.  “Let’s get going.”
The next passage started like all the others, but after a short distance it became a 
spiral ramp that descended at a manageable but definitely noticeable angle.  They 
stayed close together, for the reassurance of proximity as much as for physical support. 
Marthek’s light gave them enough illumination to see by, though there was not much to 
see, except for the unadorned and smooth stone of the walls and floor.  They were alert 
for another trap, though, knowing that even an instant’s warning might be the difference 
between life and death.
But no traps or other hazards materialized, and the slant of the passage leveled out 
before it straightened and deposited them into a vast chamber.  They walked through 
the arch into a cavernous hall, dominated by a dome of white marble that stretched a 
good fifty strides from one side to the other, its peak easily that high above them. 
Alcoves along the walls were occupied by statues of robed men, decorated with fringes 
of colored cloth that rose almost to the rim of the dome above.  The floor space was 
dominated by a large tiered gallery, full of ranks of cushioned benches, and a rostrum in 
the center where a speaker would dominate the attentions of those gathered.  There 
were numerous exits, huge vaulted arches that one might have driven a wagon through, 
and small side doors that blended almost invisibly into shadowed crevices along the 
walls.
The place was empty, sepulchrave, a vast and quiet tomb.
“The Hall of Order,” Keric said.  “This is the Mage Council’s chamber.”
“Seems bigger than I remember,” Ashandra said.  “Of course, it was full of arguing 
mages at the time.”
“This… this cannot be!” Marthek said.
“Of course it can be, and it is,” Ashandra said to him.  “We’re in the Labyrinth, 
remember?”
The steel mage flushed and lowered his eyes, abashed at his own outburst.
“So I wonder what we have to face here,” Ashandra said.  “Maybe the Mage Council 
will appear and we have to kill them to get past?  That would have a certain appeal, I 
would admit.”
“You speak of treason,” Marthek chided her.  She rounded on him, but before an 
argument could begin, Keric stepped between them.  “I think the exits are the test,” he 
told them.  “Look.”
The mages stared at the varied routes out of the chamber.  At first they saw nothing; 
the corridors beyond the great arches were deep in shadow, but that was not unusual in 
and of itself.  But after a moment, they recognized what Keric had seen; each exit, from 
the arched corridors to the small doorways, was covered with a faint, hazy film, an aura 
of distortion that was just barely visible.  Once they’d seen it, though, they could feel the 
slight tingle of contained magic.
“So which way do we go?” Marthek asked.
“If we wanted to get out of the building, the fastest way would be the main doors,” 
Ashandra said, pointing to the double doors on the far side of the room.  If this had been 
the real Hall, those doors would lead to the Great Foyer, and then out into the central 
square of Sacreth beyond.  She had actually taken a step in that direction before Keric 
stopped her.
“Wait,” he said, turning to a small, almost invisible opening in the side of the room 
opposite the rostrum, nearly hidden behind the outermost tier of seats, under a subtle 
arch that was barely defined from the surrounding stone.  “That’s it.  The Petitioner’s 
Arch.”
Ashandra nodded.  “The gateway that every one of us must go through, to present 
themselves before the Council and be admitted to the ranks of Sacreth’s wizards.”  She 
looked at Keric.  “It’s the other entrances that are used by mages, ambassadors, people 
with wealth or power.  Even the most humble citizen can use the front doors.  The 
petitioner comes in through the little side door, to remind her of the importance of 
humility.  I think you’re right, it would be just like Seris to make that the test.”
“Come on, we can get to it by cutting through the chamber,” Marthek said.  He 
started forward, but the others had barely taken their first step when a noise drew them 
up short.
The sound startled them, disturbing the silence of the vast empty chamber as it did. 
It was a sick, wet sucking noise.  Its source was close, and getting closer.  The three 
mages drew back reflexively from the sound, which seemed to come from one of the 
arched corridors on the far side of the room, along the route that would take them to the 
Petitioner’s Arch, and the way forward.
When the source of the sound finally appeared, emerging through the archway into 
view, each of them felt a cold terror in their guts.  Trave’s killer had finally found them.
It was roughly the size and shape of a man, but at that all similarity between 
themselves and the entity ended.  Its skin was a glistening red mess the color of freshly 
spilled blood, its features amorphous, lacking anything even as remotely familiar as a 
mouth or eyes.  Its arms ended in slightly curved blades, and as it stepped closer, they 
could see that with each tread a splatter of viscous gore was splashed upon the floor. 
The sucking noise came when it lifted a foot; the substance, even the bits that had 
separated from the creature, followed it, parting from the white stone to be reabsorbed, 
leaving only a vaguely discolored mark in its wake.
“By Neva’s grace,” Ashandra gasped, her skin almost as pale as the white marble 
walls of the great chamber.
Squelching with each step, the blood golem approached the three mages.
* * * * *
Chapter 7
“Go around, I will hold it off,” Marthek said, lifting his sword.
“We won’t abandon you!” Ashanadra said.
“Go!” the steel mage yelled, as he stepped forward to engage the thing.  He raised 
his sword in salute, then sidestepped smoothly as it lunged at him, one of the arm-
blades coming around in a vicious slice.  The blood golem was fast, pivoting into a 
sweep attack with its other arm, but Marthek met it with an expert block.  His sword cut 
through the substance of its body, severing the end of the blade from its arm.  The 
glistening hook landed on the floor with a sick plop.
Ashandra and Keric had hurried around the rostrum, but before they could make a 
run for the exit, the blood monster shifted back to block their path.  The two mages 
retreated, but the creation did not come after them, apparently content to keep them 
from safety.
Ashandra held another amulet, but she did not trigger it, clutching the small bronze 
disk with white fingers.  “What can we do?” she asked.
Keric was too terrified to respond.  He had pulled out his wallet of scrolls almost by 
reflex, but neither of the minor spells he had left seemed like they would stop such a 
thing.  Still, he pulled out the one spell that might even have a chance.  The spell went 
by different names; most mages simply called it the Stunner.  It operated by overloading 
the target’s nervous system for up to a minute, rendering an enemy incapacitated 
without inflicting permanent damage.  But while Keric was no expert on magical 
constructions such as the blood golem, he had a pretty good idea that the thing lacked 
the biology that would leave it vulnerable to such magic.
Marthek came forward again to meet the golem.  The construct spun to meet him, 
swinging with its remaining blade at his head.  The steel mage again met the attack with 
a solid parry, and again the substance of the golem parted, and its remaining blade fell 
to the floor.  The golem withdrew a step, but Marthek stayed with it.  He brought his 
sword up and with a fierce yell drove it down into the golem’s body.  The blade flashed 
as it bit into the thing, cutting from the side of its “neck” down to where its heart would 
have been, had it been a living creature.  There the steel stopped, caught in the dense 
substance of the golem.
Marthek’s lips twisted into a growl as he tried to draw his weapon free.  The sword 
quivered, but then runnels of blood flooded out in a torrent down the length of the steel. 
Marthek’s eyes widened and he released the hilt, but tendrils of the stuff shot out and 
wrapped around his fingers and wrist, holding him to the creature.
“Marthek!” Ashandra yelled.
The steel mage pulled hard, and the bloody strands lengthened, stretching like gobs 
of rubber.  But he could not get free of them, nor could he do anything to evade as the 
golem’s arm lashed out again, its end lengthening again into a blade edge that struck 
him hard in the elbow.  The blow severed the young mage’s arm, which snapped back 
into the blood golem’s body, sticking there with a soft sick noise.  Marthek cried out and 
fell onto his back, clutching at the severed limb with his good hand.  There was no 
blood.  He stared up at the golem with eyes wide with horror, and watched as his arm 
was absorbed into its body.  His sword still jutted from its torso, but it was now covered 
from pommel to tip with a sheen of glistening red, completely engulfed by the golem’s 
substance.
The golem took a step forward, and the gob of its matter that Marthek had severed 
earlier stretched out and was reabsorbed into its body.
Ashandra rushed forward to block it, a bright silvery glow flaring into being around 
her hand as she triggered the power of her amulet.  “Back, fiend!” she yelled at the 
golem, trying to protect the fallen mage.
Marthek tried to stop her, but he could barely roll over onto his belly, let alone get up. 
“Asha, no!” he shouted, reaching uselessly with his remaining hand, but she ignored 
him, thrusting the bright glow of her shield spell at the construct.  It slashed at her with 
its blade, which carved into the aura like a steel knife scraping on flint; showers of 
sparks flashed from the contact, and Ashandra staggered, her protective aura flickering 
as her magic was disrupted.  The golem gave her no chance to recover; it stepped 
forward, lifting both arms above its head, their ends coming together to form a dense 
bludgeon shaped like the head of a hammer.  It swung hard, and with the impact the 
shield mage’s spell collapsed with a thunderous reverberation.  Ashandra was flung 
backward, flying several paces through the air before she slammed into the rostrum. 
She hung there against the stone for a moment, dazed, then collapsed onto the floor.
Marthek tried to crawl away, but the golem moved forward after him, absorbing its 
other severed “hand” as it went.  Its arms separated and again formed into blades, 
longer and curved into nasty hooks, this time.  It followed Marthek, in no apparent hurry 
now.
Keric had been dimly aware of the battle taking place in front of him, but he could do 
nothing to help Marthek, or to prevent the golem from striking down Ashandra.  He was 
caught in a battle of his own, as he struggled against the waves of surging magic that 
permeated and corrupted the Labyrinth.
He’d realized that the stun spell written on his scroll would do nothing against the 
golem.  But as he’d begun reading the runes inscribed upon the parchment, runes he 
had written, he’d changed the spell.
What he was doing was incredibly dangerous, forbidden even of sanctioned mages, 
and with good reason.  All mages drew magic from the world around them when they 
prepared their spells, and a small trickle from themselves, an anchor that allowed them 
to bind the magic to their focus of choice, to store it until it was needed.  The very best 
mages could bind a spell that would remain potent in perpetuity, although there were 
few alive in Sacreth today with such skill.  Magic was in and of the world, a bottomless 
wellspring limited only by the skill and personal fortitude of the wizard tapping it.
But there was a reason that spells were confined in objects, and constrained to very 
specific parameters.  A mage who drew too deeply from that wellspring, or who tried to 
draw without the benefit of a focus, was just as likely to burn himself out as to shape the 
magic to his desire.  Keric had had this message battered into him by his instructors: 
raw magic was like a sword that had points at both ends.
He knew that, and had no guidance other than instinct as he rearranged the order of 
the sigils as he read them, shifting the inflection, unraveling the complex and delicate 
web he’d created when he’d written the spell.  He changed it only slightly, a subtle 
difference, drawing upon the magic that infused the Labyrinth to augment his spell.
Almost at once he felt it surrounding him, a corrupted torrent.  He felt sick, and 
nearly lost the spell.  He imagined that he could feel the thick tendrils of red taint 
twisting around him, passing through him, leaving marks upon his soul like the greasy 
slicks left by a gusher of black oil spurting from the ground.  He knew that he could not 
long retain his grasp upon the spell, so he completed it as quickly as he could, 
summoning every bit of stamina that he had left and adding to it the energies he’d 
stolen, combining the whole into a single massive blast that he hurled at the golem.  As 
the magic fled he felt as though he’d come up from the bottom of a lake, life flowing 
back into him like that first sweet breath of air.  He slumped to his knees, and quite 
nearly fell further.
It took a great effort to look up.
The golem was splattered against one of the tiers of the hall, the gooey mass of its 
substance trickling over a row of benches, soiling the expensive cushions.  The sight of 
it filled him with exultation; the spell had worked!  A sound that was half laugh, half 
groan escaped his lips.  He tried to get up; his head spun, but he was able to stagger to 
his feet.  Marthek had crawled nearly over to Ashandra, who was stirring, coughing as 
she tried to suck air into her bruised lungs.
He started toward them, but managed only one step before he froze.  He’d heard 
something, a subtle noise, a small squelching pop that chilled his blood.  He turned his 
head slowly, knowing already what he would see.
The shattered mess of bloody gore that had made up the golem was scattered over 
the stone and wood of the tier, but at its core were several dense gobs of material. 
Those gobs were quivering, and as Keric watched, he saw the scattered splatters begin 
to shift and move, slowly extending to absorb or be absorbed into larger masses 
nearby.  Slowly it was coming together again, gradually taking on form as it 
reconstituted itself.
Action replaced conscious thought, and he ran over to Marthek.  The steel mage had 
reached the edge of the rostrum, and was using it to try and pull himself up, without 
much success.  Keric grabbed him and lifted him, holding him against the weathered 
stone base of the platform.  “We have to get out of here!” he said, making sure that he 
would stay up before turning to help Ashandra.
But the shield mage was already getting to her feet.  Keric saw her tuck a small 
crystal vial, now empty, into her sleeve.  She was battered and unsteady, but was 
standing on her own power, and she seemed to grow stronger with each passing 
second.  “Help me,” she said, pushing past him to take one of Marthek’s arms.  Keric 
took the other, all too aware that it ended at the elbow.  Blood was finally starting to 
ooze from the terrible wound, but it seeped sluggishly, smearing on Keric’s hands as he 
helped Ashandra carry the crippled mage toward the Petitioner’s Arch.
Behind them they could hear the noises of the golem growing steadily louder behind 
them, but neither looked back.  Marthek was trying to help them, but his limbs fumbled, 
and he could not manage to get his feet under him.  The other two mages all but 
dragged him through the arch, then Ashandra pushed the steel mage into Keric’s arms.
“Get him as far away as you can,” she said, turning back toward the hall.
“You can’t fight that thing!” Keric said, his voice on the thin edge of panic.
“I’m not going to fight it,” she said, taking another amulet from a pocket in her dress. 
No, it was two amulets, he saw, as she pulled the thing apart with some effort.  They 
were lodestones, and she attached one piece to either side of the arch.  The arch was 
made of stone, not metal, but the black stones stayed where she put them, and she 
began focusing on them, lingering in what Keric recognized as preparation for a spell.
“It won’t stop—” Keric said again, but Ashandra cut him off.  “Damn it, setting up a 
resonance on the fly is hard enough without you chattering at me.  Get him as far away 
as you can, now!”
Keric took up Marthek and dragged him down the passage.  In the real Hall of Order, 
the passage on the far side of the Arch led to a small cloakroom within ten paces, but 
this one stretched on for what seemed like an eternity.  With the limp burden of the steel 
mage and his armor dragging him, Keric felt as though he was trying to push a boulder 
up a hill.  He glanced back to see Ashandra still in the archway, still working her magic. 
He could see the effects of it now, a visible distortion that stretched between the two 
lodestones, filling the opening, a haze in the air that vibrated and wavered like the 
surface of a wind-swept pond.  There was something else, too, a red outline that grew 
until it nearly filled the arch.
“Ashandra!” he yelled.
The shield mage reached out and touched the distortion, provoking a violent 
reverberation.  The stones of the arch started to shake, and a high-pitched whine that 
was just short of painful filled the corridor.  Keric turned, shielding Marthek with his 
body, as Ashandra ran toward them.  The explosion, when it came, was almost an 
anticlimax.  The shock wave knocked him down, but not roughly, and it was almost easy 
to slide over the rest of the way, and drift off into oblivion.
* * * * *
Chapter 8
“Keric.  Keric, wake up.”  
The voice drew him the rest of the way back to consciousness, but it brought pain 
with it.  His whole body hurt, but those aches could almost be forgotten against the 
throbbing that filled his skull.  Falling back into the black seemed like a wholly preferable 
option, but he forced himself to open his eyes and sit up.  He was surprised that he was 
able to manage that, but once he was fully awake the pain receded to a more or less 
manageable level.
Ashandra was crouched over him.  She looked to be mostly intact, if somewhat the 
worse for wear.  Her dress was torn and singed in a few places, and her hair was 
scattered in a wild halo around her face, but her eyes were bright and alert.  Marthek sat 
against the wall opposite, conscious but obviously in distress.  He cradled the stump of 
his ruined arm, wrapped in a hasty bandage, in his remaining hand.
“Where are we?” Keric asked, looking around.  They were in a passage of unmarked 
stone.  Ashandra had summoned a light from a silver pendant dangling from a chain 
around her wrist, but its glow didn’t extend more than a few paces down the tunnel to 
either side.  The darkness seemed malevolent, expectant, and Keric quickly looked 
away. 
“We’re in the tunnel on the far side of the Petitioner’s Arch,” she said.  “Don’t you 
remember?”
“How long… how long was I unconscious?”
“Just a few minutes.  The blast from the disrupted resonance nearly knocked me out 
as well.”
He nodded.  “The blood golem?”
She glanced over her shoulder, and when she looked back there was a haunted look 
in her eyes.  “I collapsed the passage,” she said.  “If it could get through, I suppose it 
would have already.”
“We can’t assume that there isn’t another way around,” Keric said.  “We need to find 
the exit.  Help me up.”
Ashandra nodded.  Once he was back on his feet, both of them looked down at 
Marthek.  “You said you had a healing spell, earlier,” Ashandra said.
Marthek didn’t look up.  “Better to just leave me,” he said.
Keric knelt beside the stricken man and took out his wallet, and the last precious 
scroll inside.  “I can’t replace your arm, but I can restore some strength, and maybe 
counter some of the effects of what that thing did to you.”
Marthek looked as though he would protest, but finally he closed his eyes and 
nodded.  Keric unrolled the scroll, and gestured for Ashandra to hold her light close by. 
The spell gave him no difficulties, and as the soft blue glow faded from the scroll and 
spread into the body of the steel mage, he sighed and relaxed incrementally.  When 
Ashandra and Keric helped him to his feet, he was able to remain standing on his own 
power. 
“Thank you,” he said.  “Give me… a moment,” he said, taking a few tentative steps 
back down the passage.
“He needs immediate attention from a senior healer, and quickly,” Ashandra said 
quietly.  “That thing hurt him, but more than that, it’s this place, it’s affecting us 
somehow.  I can feel it.”
Keric nodded.  “That was an illegal stimulant in that vial, wasn’t it?  Tarrenbar, or 
white lotus extract…”
“Naetha,” she said.  “It was naetha, if you must know.  Unfortunately I had only the 
one dose, or I would share it with both of you.”
He must have betrayed his revulsion in his expression, for she laughed grimly and 
shot him a hard look.  “Had I not used it, none of us would be here right now.”
“But the degenerative side effects—”
“Only develop upon repeated and excessive use,” she responded.  “You are in no 
position to judge me,” she added, nodding at his arms.
Keric looked down, and saw that his bare skin was streaked with faint smears of red. 
At first he thought it was Marthek’s blood, from when he’d carried him earlier, but with a 
dawning realization he reached up and touched his face.  He could feel the slight 
stickiness on his fingers even before he looked down at them.  He already knew that he 
would find no cuts or gashes on his skin.  Neither of the others bore such marks.  They 
were the physical remnants of the magic he’d unleashed in the desperate battle against 
the blood golem.  The marks of a blood mage. 
“I suppose if someone is still watching, we’re both finished as wizards,” she said, 
handing him a small kerchief from a pocket.  “I wanted to win this before.”
“And now?”
“Now, I just want to live.”
Marthek rejoined them, a bit steadier on his feet.  He let Ashandra take the lead as 
they resumed their trek down the tunnel.  It went on for what seemed like forever, and 
they were all breathing heavily by the time that they finally saw a light ahead.
The passage opened onto a large oval chamber.  A small stair of three broad steps 
led down to the level of the floor in front of them.  The room was lit by lamps recessed 
into the ceiling, providing a vague but sufficient illumination.  Keric could see at least 
four other exits, all on the near side of the room, and all at different levels, from one 
passage mouth at least ten feet above the floor, accessed by a ladder of iron rungs, to a 
deeply recessed opening in the floor that had the look of a cave mouth.  The plethora of 
routes into the chamber made him nervous, and he quickly joined Ashandra in crossing 
the room.
The floor in the center of the chamber descended via more steep tiers to culminate 
in a deep bowl.  The stone on the far side of the depression was carved into a slender 
flight of stone steps that connected its bottom to their level, then continued up to a 
raised platform that filled the narrowest part of the chamber opposite.  The ascent was 
steep enough so that a man atop the platform might feel a sense of vertigo looking over 
the brink; certainly the drop was enough to break bones if one misplaced a step.
Their eyes were drawn to something in the center of the bowl, situated just a few 
steps from the bottom of the stairs.  A crystal orb lay in a broad stone basin, flashing 
slightly in the diffuse glow from above.  The orb looked like a smaller version of the 
Labyrinth crystal.
“Come on,” Ashandra said.  She moved carefully around the perimeter of the bowl to 
the stairs, but hardly slowed there, taking the steps quickly down to the bottom in front 
of the basin.
Keric and Marthek followed more slowly.  The scroll mage paused at the juncture of 
the steps, and peered up toward the top of the platform.  He could now see what had 
been hidden in shadows before; one last arch, this one black and empty.
“It’s the way out,” he said to the others.  “It must be.”
“This must be a trigger of some sort,” Ashandra said, moving around the basin to a 
spot where she could easily reach the crystal.
“Be careful, it may be corrupted in some fashion,” Marthek said.  The steel mage’s 
color was much improved since Keric had healed him, but as he reached the bottom of 
the steps he slumped against the edge of the bowl, exhaustion drawing hard lines 
across his features.
“I am just going to test it,” Ashandra said.  She looked at Keric, who had descended 
halfway down the steps.  As he nodded, she reached out and gently placed both hands 
upon the crystal. 
He could not tell exactly what she was doing, but he could see the look of 
concentration deepen on her face, and suspected she was doing exactly what he would 
have done; Delving into the magic.  He hoped that whatever test Seris had placed here 
for them could be overcome with their innate talents; his own spells were all gone, and 
he doubted that Ashandra had much magic of her own in reserve. 
But even as the thought crossed his mind, the sphere began to glow from within, 
casting the shield mage’s features into stark relief.  He could see the beads of sweat 
glistening on her brow as she continued to focus upon the crystal, activating its magic. 
The glow spread across the bowl, and he only belatedly realized that it was being 
matched by another radiance behind him.  He turned and looked up the stairs, and saw 
that a brightness matching the light coming from the crystal had appeared within the 
arch.  It grew steadier until it formed a sheer plane, a shimmering opening, a portal back 
to their own reality.
“You did it!” Keric said.  “Come on, we’ve got to get out of here before—”
But his words died even as Ashandra released the sphere; the light instantly faded, 
along with the portal within the arch.
“I can’t… I can’t keep it open,” she said.  “It should… there’s something there, 
something pushing against me.  It slammed the door as soon as I released it.”
Keric stepped forward.  “Let me try,” he said.
“No.  You have to get him out of here,” she said, nodding toward Marthek.  The steel 
mage tried to protest, but she ruthlessly cut him off.  “You can’t even stand, let alone 
manage something like this,” she said.  She shifted her eyes toward Keric.  “The same 
goes for you.  I could barely manage it, even with the naetha in my bloodstream, and 
you look like you’re going to fall down at any moment.”
He stepped forward.  “There has to be something, a way that we haven’t thought of, 
to keep it open…”
“Save it,” she said.  “We don’t have time—”
As if on cue, a sound interrupted her.  A terrible, familiar sound.
“It’s coming!” Marthek said.  He surged to his feet, but almost as quickly fell, 
groaning as he collapsed onto the steps.
Keric met Ashandra’s gaze.  “Go,” she said.  “Go.”
He tore his eyes away from her as she turned back to the crystal orb.  He grabbed 
onto Marthek, pulled him to his feet.  He didn’t look back as he dragged the semi-
conscious mage up the stairs, nearly falling with each step.  Ahead of them the glow 
from the arch began to shine again.  And behind… behind he knew what was coming, 
could see it in his mind almost as clearly as if he’d stopped to look.  He could sense the 
eagerness of the entity to stop them, to absorb their blood as it had taken Trave’s, and 
had started with Marthek’s.
As it would take Ashandra’s.
He almost stopped there, at the top of the steps.  The glow had spread and 
steadied, the portal open once more, though its light was tentative, its edges flickering 
within the boundary of stone.  Marthek groaned and tried to pull free, and that alone was 
enough to drive Keric to action.  Drawing upon the last lingering vestige of his strength, 
he hurled the both of them forward, into the light.
* * * * *
Chapter 9
Keric tapped on the solitary door at the far end of the long corridor that ran down the 
length of the third floor of Tallwarden Hall.
“Come in.”
Professor Padronis was standing behind his desk, in the midst of what looked like a 
sea of chaos.  Books, bags, parchments, and dozens if not hundreds of pieces of 
assorted miscellanea covered every flat surface in the room.  Padronis was selecting 
items and putting them into a box that was balanced precariously on the edge of his 
chair; a half-dozen similar boxes were already stacked near the door.  They blocked the 
door from opening more than a bit, but Keric was able to slide through.
The senior mage looked up as Keric entered the room.  “Ah, good, Keric, I was 
hoping to talk to you before the movers arrived.”  He gestured with a hand toward the 
mess.  “As you can see, I’m a bit behind.  Hand me that mortar and pestle, will you?  On 
the shelf behind the door.”
As Keric handed it over, he said, “Congratulations on your promotion, sir.”
Padronis hesitated with the ceramic bowl in his hands.  “Yes, well, I think we can all 
understand why Dean Corinther chose to retire now.  I cannot blame him.”
Keric fidgeted a bit as Padronis carefully lowered the mortar and pestle into the box, 
then picked up the lid, fastened it, and shifted the box to the floor.  There were more 
empty boxes behind the desk, but Keric couldn’t see how all of the contents of the office 
would possibly fit into even twice their number.  “Sir, I wanted to speak to you about my 
request.  I thought maybe you could intercede with—”
Padronis interrupted him with a raised hand.  He gestured for Keric to close the 
door.  When he had, the older mage sighed and said, “Keric, the team sent into the 
Labyrinth included senior mages from both the University faculty and the Mage Council. 
Do you think you’ll find something they could not?”
“No, it’s not that.  It’s just that… I needed to…”
“I know that it is difficult to gain closure in circumstances like this,” Padronis said.  “In 
any case, even if I wanted to intervene, the matter has been closed.  The Council has 
decreed that the annual Labyrinth competition is to be ended; they have taken custody 
of the crystal and are planning on securing it in their vaults.  I wouldn’t be surprised if 
they ended up finding a use for it again at some point, but it is no longer a University 
concern.”
“No longer a University concern,” Keric repeated, the words tinged with more than a 
hint of bitterness.
“We attend to our own,” Padronis said softly.  “I didn’t see you at the services 
yesterday.”
“I’m sorry.  I… I guess I just wasn’t quite ready to move on.”
The other mage nodded.  “Mages Hael and Sarhus will be missed; it is our task now 
to ensure that they will not be forgotten.  Have you spoken to Marthek Jarol?”
“Not since he returned to Sirrath, to his family’s estate there.  I got the impression, 
however, that he was not planning on returning to the University.”
“Yes.  A shame, that.  We can do so much with our magic, but we cannot give the 
boy back his arm.”  He settled his gaze on Keric.  “The attack cost us three promising 
young mages.  It is my sincere hope that it does not claim a fourth.”
Keric nodded.  “Is there any more information about the blood mage?  I heard a 
rumor that he was connected somehow to the Sokhali, and that the Empire—”
“A mage should not barter in rumors,” Padronis said, again cutting him off.  “You 
should know, better than most, of the danger that can exist in careless words.”  He 
deliberately softened his expression.  “The matter is being dealt with.  I urge you to 
leave it at that.”  He bent down and picked up a fresh box from the pile, placed it on his 
chair.  “Let us speak of more positive topics.  I understand that you wish to study under 
me next term.”
“If you are still taking students,” Keric said.
“Oh, I do not intend to let my new assignment isolate me from teaching entirely,” 
Padronis said.  “Although I would have thought that you would have preferred to remain 
with a master within your own discipline for your advanced work.  Trying to become the 
first archmage in two hundred years?”
“Scroll magic is definitely enough of a challenge for me,” Keric replied.  “But magical 
theory is universal.  And… well, I think that the schools can be a bit too insular, 
sometimes.  Maybe if we learned to work together better…”
“A wise sentiment,” Padronis said.  He looked around at the remaining clutter and 
threw up his hands.  “Ah, this isn’t going to get done any time soon.  Come on, buy me 
a cup of tea, and tell me what brilliant discoveries you intend to make next term.”
* * *
It was well past last bell when Keric returned to the Quadrangle, alone.  The 
University was never truly asleep, but at that late hour, closer to dawn than to the 
preceding sunset, the large open square was deserted, and only a few of the windows 
in the surrounding buildings were aglow with the light of spelled lamps.
Keric walked slowly to the Viewing Pool.  The bleachers and platform that had been 
used during the final running of the Labyrinth competition were gone, dismantled and 
returned to storage, but there were still subtle signs of what had happened.  It was hard 
to see in the darkness, but patches of sod had been removed and replaced.  Keric had 
heard that the spots where the blood mage’s dark magic had touched had been utterly 
tainted; they’d even had to dig up and replace the dirt underneath the grass.
They’d left the fountain.  There had been talk of tearing it down as well, but 
ultimately the governing council had elected to leave it.  It now sat quiet and empty of 
water.  Keric stopped before it, and stared down at the blank stone.  There was no 
remnant of the blood mage, of course, but Keric shuddered as he thought of the man, 
and what he had done here.  He had not been there during the battle, of course, but 
he’d spoken to a number of people who had witnessed the exchange, and its grim 
finale.  When he and Marthek had reappeared next to the fountain, in all of the 
confusion, he’d never gotten a chance to look into the pool, to look at the body of the 
man who had tried to kill him.  Who had succeeded in killing two of them, and crippling a 
third.
He stood there staring for a long time.  Then, stirring as though waking from a 
dream, he reached into his tunic and drew out a scroll.
He unrolled the crisp new parchment, carefully spreading it on the flat stone lip of the 
fountain.  It was too dark to read, but he had prepared for that in his working, and as he 
anchored the corners of the scroll with small pebbles he traced his fingers over the 
writing, whispering a minor incantation.  The runes flared slightly and came alive with a 
gentle light.
He started to read.  The words flowed from his lips in the same way that they had 
flowed from his pen onto the parchment.  Magic was never easy, even for a skilled 
mage, but somehow this time the words had rushed out, as if they had been penned up 
inside him, eager and waiting to get out.  He swayed slightly and felt a slight dizziness 
as he read, but he completed the spell.  All focus magic, whether scroll or gem or 
amulet or blade, drew somewhat on the personal power of the mage, but Keric had 
delved deeper with this working.  His tutors likely would have frowned upon this 
expenditure and the risks involved, but it was something he had felt he had to do.  To 
purge the demons he had brought with him out of the Labyrinth, perhaps.
The disorientation passed as he finished his casting.  The runes inscribed on the 
scroll flared in sequence and disappeared, and the other words below them, several 
lines of text that extended to the bottom of the scroll, likewise faded.  That writing was 
mundane, not magic, but those words too had power.  For him, if not for anyone else.
He carefully removed the pebbles and lifted the scroll.  It was too dark to clearly read 
the writing that was now deeply incised into the stone, but Keric knew them by heart. 
The inscriptions perfectly matched the words he had written on the bottom of the scroll.
ASHANDRA HAEL AND TRAVE SARHUS 
THEY GAVE THEIR LIVES SO THAT OTHERS WOULD LIVE
WE WILL NEVER FORGET
Rolling up the empty scroll and tucking it back into his pocket, the young mage 
turned and departed, leaving the Quadrangle quiet and empty again in his wake.
THE END <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
“The Landlord,” by scifiguy3553.  Smashwords.  Copyright @ 
2017.
What in the world does a millionaire, real estate Millennial of 
New York City have to do with an ancient superstition from the 
Middle East?  And why is that ancient tale intruding on Trevor 
Mesa’s life and one of his long-time tenants?
New York City; Manhattan.  USA.  Present Day…
“…Yes, ma’am…Ye— Yes, ma’am…Ok, I’ll—ma’am, I’ll be over 
as soon as I can…Yes, it’ll be by subway…Ok, I’ll hurry,” Trevor 
said; finally hanging up his smartphone.  He let out a 
discouraged sigh.  “Christ…”  
He had just gotten his falafel-bowl and sat down on a bench 
when one of his long-time tenants had called about a situation 
with her apartment in Harlem.  He was one of New York City’s 
up-and-coming realtors, but Trevor still worked another gig on 
the side by renting several apartments throughout the borough. 
He stuffed the olive oil-laden falafel in his mouth with his plastic 
spoon after gathering his laptop-satchel and Styrofoamed-latte. 
Trevor then made sure his hipster-beard had no crumbs on it 
with a couple of quick strokes with his hands—almost as a dairy 
farmer did with his or her hands while milking a cow!  He then 
headed straight for the nearest subway entry…
nd
132  Street; Harlem.  Anam Shehez’s residence…
Trevor finally made it to his small complex of apartments in 
Harlem that he rented out.  It wasn’t the largest property in the 
neighborhood, but it was one of the most updated complex on 
the block.  He was supposed to be showing a very wealthy, 
potentially new client a loft that Trevor had just renovated 
months ago.  He was relieved that the social media magnate was 
flexible enough to push the show-date to another day.  Trevor 
was one of those Millennials with not only his head on straight, 
but so was his heart.  He had just turned 30 a few months ago, 
and was already a multi-millionaire with his own real estate 
business!  
But to Anam Shehez, she just needed him to be a good landlord 
right now…
“Mrs. Shehez,” Trevor said to her as he reached her location; 
several yards away from the apartments, “may I ask why you’re 
out here?  Was there someone in the apartment after all?”  It was 
approaching dusk and there were several people hustling their 
way to home or the bars after work.
All she did for a while was shake her head repeatedly.  She kept 
her head down before responding.  “Mr. Mesa, I don’t 
understand why a rich man like you won’t get a car!  You could 
have gotten here sooner!”
“Not with New York’s traffic, Mrs. Shehez.  And especially this 
time of day…so, what’s going on?”
Now she looked back, toward the complex; her traditional 
Pakistani dress and trousers colorful in comparison to their 
surroundings.  Trevor looked on with her, but he couldn’t see 
anything worth catching the widow’s attention.  Again, she 
started shaking her head.  “I thought it was him, Mr. Mesa…”
His head went back and forth between the elderly Pakistani and 
the three-storied apartments.  “You mean Mr. Shehez?  Mrs. 
Shehez, I’m sorry but your husband passed away four years 
ago.”
“Yes, I know…I just thought maybe…”  She sighed.  But her head 
never actually stopped shaking.  “Something is not right, Mr. 
Mesa…there is something in there that has the presence of 
Abdel, but clearly is not!”
Trevor took in a deep breath and slowly exhaled.  He looked 
around the neighborhood at all the busy New Yorkers and a few 
tourists.  Mrs. Shehez was almost like an aunt to him.  He knew 
she was very superstitious, but he did not want to come across as 
condescending.  
“I take it calling the cops would’ve been a waste of time,” he 
said; more of a statement than a question.
“Usually they’ll tell you there would have to be something more 
threatening before they send someone over.  Besides, this is 
outside of their expertise…I recorded it with my phone.  Did you 
want to see it?”
Trevor looked at her with surprise.  That should’ve been the first 
thing she showed him before their conversation!  Again, Trevor 
was willing to work with her.  He took a step over to where she 
stood and took her smartphone as she offered it to him.  
Trevor had to take the phone off rest-default before he played 
the short video.  Indeed, in the shot—taken in Mrs. Shehez’s 
small living room—appeared to show a ghostly, moving image of 
some being slowly walking; just passing the wall that led to her 
short hallway, and the apparition was gone!  The recorded video 
footage then began to jostle as Mrs. Shehez quickly walked to the 
area of the hallway where the being was spotted.  The footage 
then showed that she turned around the corner from the living 
room that led to that same hall, and there was a flash…not of 
light, but of some unexpected form that enveloped the video’s 
field of vision!  
But there were no breaks in Mrs. Shehez’s recording.  In the 
video, one could hear her yelp as the dark-flash popped right in 
front of her!  Next was the empty hallway; as its image jerked 
back and forth in the recording while Mrs. Shehez is heard 
crying in the background…then the video ended.
Trevor’s eyes had cut over to Mrs. Shehez; the rest of his body 
unmoving.  She merely looked at the young realtor.  The first 
thing that came to his mind was, whatever it was he saw in the 
video, how was it that it seemed to pass right through her or 
passed her, yet she showed no signs of any injury.  Which, on its 
face, was good news.  
However…
“Mrs. Shehez,” Trevor said after a moment’s thought, “would 
you mind if I were to share this footage with a friend of mine 
who’s well-versed and practiced in…”
“Ghosts?”
He looked at her.  There was a bit of askance to her and Trevor 
felt some pity for the octogenarian.  “I was going to say the 
Paranormal…her name is Jenny.  She’s traveled all over the 
world for studies of the Paranormal and I think she’s just the 
person for this.”
Mrs. Shehez merely nodded; tears beginning to well up in her 
eyes.  She watched as the young man, very deftly, typed a long 
series of commands into her smartphone and then Trevor 
handed the phone back to Mrs. Shehez.  She looked at her 
phone, then back at the young millionaire with strained brows.
“Well, don’t you need my phone to share the recording with 
your friend?”
Trevor, at first, froze.  He had to remind himself that most 
people in their sixties—much less their eighties!—simply don’t 
use social media!  He began to laugh hardily.
“Mrs. Shehez, it’s all done electronically.”
“Oh…I believe I actually understand that, now!”
They both went silent.  Both surveyed the neighborhood as night 
began to darken the sky.  Streetlights were now automatically 
switching on.
“Mrs. Shehez, do you have a relative or friend that you can spend 
the night with tonight?”
She thought for a moment.  She nodded her head.  “One of my 
sons…I did not want to be a bother…he has his own family.  I 
can’t see going back in there, Mr. Mesa!”
“You don’t have to tell me, Mrs. Shehez!  I’m sure your son will 
be more than glad to have you stay over.  Should we call him?”
Mrs. Shehez placed the call to her son.  It was all in Urdu.  After 
she finished her conversation with him—which, of course, 
included the situation she found herself in—she replaced her 
phone back into her pocket and gave a thin smile to Trevor.
They decided to walk over to a nearby diner to wait for her son. 
Trevor bought dinner for Mrs. Shehez and himself.  It would be 
about forty-five minutes before the middle-aged man drove up 
in a nice car—one of those old school, big American luxury 
vehicles.  He got out and met Trevor and his mother outside of 
the diner.  He shook Trevor’s hand and thanked him for taking 
care of his mother, especially since his father had died.  
Fazal Shehez, in simple jeans and a sweatshirt—most likely he 
threw them on in a hurry—insisted that he drive the multi-
millionaire Millennial to his home in the Chelsea area.  But 
Trevor wanted to stay and go into Mrs. Shehez’s apartment and 
check out the situation for himself.  He always carried all his 
properties’ keys with him.  New York City was simply too dense 
to have to turn around and go back home just for a key!
By the time the Shehezs had left for Fazal’s home it was dark 
outside.  Trevor made his way to Mrs. Shehez’s apartment…
When Trevor opened Anam Shehez’s apartment door, the aroma 
of curry wafted passed him.  Tomorrow, he thought to himself, 
he would make it a point to have lunch from any of the 
international restaurants that made curry! 
The apartment was modest and relatively bare; predominately 
styled in the traditions of Pakistan.  Mrs. Shehez was in such a 
hurry she left her flat screen tv on.  To be able to listen for 
anything out of the ordinary, Trevor turned it off with the 
remote.  The stark silence after the flat screen went off was 
almost troubling itself, even with the apartment’s lights on!
Remembering Mrs. Shehez’s recorded video, Trevor took out his 
own smartphone and began recording his inspection.  Later, he 
thought, he would share the video with his Paranormal friend, 
Jenny Housman.  She lived out in Westbrook, Maine; one of the 
suburbs of Portland, Maine.  She had moved there with her 
husband and their two daughters from New York City after her 
husband had gotten a good job offer from a call center firm. 
They were the best of friends since middle school.  Indeed, 
sometimes Trevor wondered if that friendship between the two 
was the real reason why Jenny’s husband sought a job far out 
from New York.  But close enough for the family to travel back to 
the city to see relatives and friends…
Twenty minutes later Trevor had completely inspected Mrs. 
Shehez’s apartment for anything suspicious.  He simply could 
not find anything outside the Normal.  He began to wonder if the 
elderly woman was beginning to suffer from Munchausen. 
Again, it had been four years since her husband’s death…
“Whoa!” he yelped!  It was a call from Jenny.  Her thumbnail-
sized pictured avatar was lit up with all the contact info on 
Trevor’s smartphone!
“Woman, you have impeccable t—“
“Where are you?”
Trevor froze.  “I’m at Mrs. Shehez’s apartment…She went to stay 
over at—“
“Good,” Jenny’s curt, high-pitched voice punctured.  “Now you 
get the hell out of there, Trev…now!”
Of course, he was going to ask why, but he knew that Jenny 
would just insist even harsher.  More to the point, he trusted 
Jenny and knew there had to be a very good reason for her 
demeanor.  
So, Trevor ran straight out of the apartment!  He had the 
presence of mind to lock the front door before slamming it shut 
behind him as he virtually flew out of Mrs. Shehez’s apartment! 
A couple of his other tenants saw him nearly crash into the wall 
opposite of the apartment’s front door in the apartment’s 
hallway!  They both started toward him, but Trevor waved them 
off, graciously.  He lied to them about tripping over one of Mrs. 
Shehez’s rugs as he was walking out of the apartment, after 
doing a welfare check-up on her.  That did the trick, and Trevor 
calmly left the complex and began walking toward the subway 
area.
He called Jenny back.
“Where are you now,” she asked once again.
“I’m heading toward the subway—“
“Please don’t…I’m heading out there, now.  I’m driving out to 
Portland’s airport as we speak, Trev.”
Trevor flinched.  “Jenny, what the hell is going on?  What’s 
spooked you so bad?” 
“I’ll explain when I’m there with you.  I don’t want to talk on a 
plane about the craft, you know what I’m sayin’?”
Her ways of putting things made Trevor laugh.  It was one of the 
things he adored so much about her.
“Ok, an hour and a half is not such a bad wait.”
“And, Trev?”
He had decided to go back to the all-hours diner he and Mrs. 
Shehez had eaten earlier to wait for Jenny.  “Yeah?”
“You really should get you a car, you filthy rich man!”
Two Hours Later, at the dinner…
Trevor and Jenny had done all the hugging and joking that two 
good friends do when they haven’t seen each other for months. 
They had ordered coffee and waited until the server walked away 
before they got to business.
Jenny had brought only a portion of her Paranormal equipment 
with her on her flight from Portland, Maine.  One of the tools 
was an electronic tablet that she adapted for her researches in 
the Paranormal.  She slid it toward Trevor for him to take a 
look…
It took a while, but Trevor realized what he was looking at.  “This 
is from part of Mrs. Shehez’s video that I sent you during the 
day!”
“Yup…”  Jenny, a couple of years older than Trevor; also wearing 
thick-rimmed glasses, gestured with a jutting chin for him to 
inspect the still-image further.
The server showed up again, this time with their coffee, cream, 
and water.  Trevor went ahead and paid and tipped the young 
woman and continued to stare at the image on the etablet.
“What the hell is that,” he finally said, giving up.
She reached over the table of cups of coffee and water and began 
to tap in some commands.  Jenny leaned back in her seat with 
satisfaction.  The video from Mrs. Shehez was, once again, 
playing, but with several filters added:  for dark and light 
contrasts, for shadow-reductions, some sharpening of outlines…
All those filters helped sharpen, though not perfectly, the image 
of that dark-flash toward the end of Mrs. Shehez’s video.  Jenny 
had also set the etablet to loop that flash-point of the video.  
The being, very dark-brown with dark mustard-orange sclerae 
for its eyes, could be seen leaping in front of the Mrs. Shehez’s 
phone-camera.  If, in fact, that was what it was doing.  Again, the 
quality of the footage was a bit grainy, but it was the best that 
Jenny could do with, apparently, footage taken from a 
Paranormal encounter!  The being seemed humanoid in 
appearance, but clearly it was not of the sapiens lineage!  Indeed, 
from some of the details of the recording of the being’s 
surroundings—Mrs. Shehez’s hallway—the being looked a lot 
larger than most humans!  It had a shock of hair; its arms held 
out, as if it were almost beckoning someone!
Without even having to say a word, all Trevor did was slowly 
raise his eyes from the electronic tablet and put them on Jenny. 
She obliged.
“ ‘I Dream Of Jeannie’… ‘Aladdin’…you know, the ol’ rubbing 
the ancient oil lamp and what we call today a genie smokes out 
and grants you wishes…that, my friend, is a bona fide djinni.”
By that time, Trevor was nodding while watching the looping 
video on the etablet.  “With a ‘d.’  Yeah, I read about that in art 
history…aren’t they from the mysticism of the Sufi sect of 
Islam?”
“Well, djinn are mentioned in the Quran, and the Sufi are usually 
more associated with the concept of the djinn.  But it’s kind of a 
regional thing in the Middle East going back far more than three 
thousand years before Islam was even founded!  Kind of like 
paganism with the Europeans before they took to Christianity, 
right?  Mind you, other parts of the Middle East farther away 
from ancient Mesopotamia had their own spin on the djinn…”
Jenny leaned forward in her seat at the diner-table and did some 
swiping on the electronic tablet to bring up another window 
from another website that she, apparently, had saved on her 
tablet.  The image brought up was of ancient Mesopotamia, but 
the rendering looked very similar with early- Medieval European 
Christian paintings!  Instead of Roman lettering, Arabic 
calligraphy adorned the ancient page which the artwork was 
painted on.  To the right within the scene, loomed a large, dark 
caricature of a djinni holding a male human that was mostly 
naked.  To the left of this djinni were other mythical beings—one 
with wings and a set of horns atop its head as it appeared to be 
flying down from the heavens while two more beings were 
planted on the earth.  Each of those creatures actually looked 
more animal-like and distorted than the giant djinni depicted in 
the ancient painting!  
The one thing that stuck out most to Trevor was how the smaller 
beings facing the seated giant holding the human all had their 
hands out toward the djinni—as if in a pleading or beckoning 
gesture.  Very similar how the djinni was holding his hands out 
in that dark-flashing moment from Mrs. Shehez’s recorded 
video!
Trevor hovered a pointing finger at this observation; careful not 
to touch the interactive monitor.  “Right here…what are these 
other creatures doing, Jen?  It’s almost as if they’re trying to coax 
the djinni into giving the human to them!”
Jenny looked at Trevor with a smile that he recognized.  He was 
on to something, but she wanted Trevor to figure it out for 
himself!  He looked at Jenny’s guiding smile, then back at the 
ancient parchment on the etablet.  He thought for a while…
“This is an ancient tale from the Middle East…Mrs. Shehez and 
her husband are from Pakistan—a bit on the eastern edge from 
Mesopotamia, but a lot of shared cultural themes…that’s got to 
be a connection!  And—and in this ancient scene, it’s almost as if 
the djinni is trying to protect the human!  If not, then…”
“Why wasn’t Mrs. Shehez hurt in the encounter, Trev,” Jenny 
asked with some sympathy.
Again, Trevor thought for a while as his eyes went to his cooled 
cup of coffee; trying to dig deeper into the weird world of the 
Paranormal that was more suited for Jenny and not him!  “I was 
wondering about that myself…”  Then, Trevor flinched!  His 
head snapped from the table and his eyes peered at Jenny. 
“There were two apparitions recorded!  I—I had forgotten with 
all the…the first one was slow-moving, like how an elderly man 
might walk—”
“Yes,” Jenny responded; but her smile was gone from her face.
“Mrs. Shehez turned the corner while chasing the first 
apparition, and…and that’s when that flash happened—the 
djinni jumped right in front of Mrs. Shehez…”
Both sat silently; staring at each other.  Jenny already knew the 
answer, but Trevor was not far behind.  It was something he 
didn’t like the answer to, but the logic behind the whole 
incident, the ancient history, and the Paranormal expert’s 
guiding hand all seemed to converge at that point!
“A refill for either of you,” the young server had asked; an old-
fashioned glass coffee pot in hand.  She seemed to catch on that 
the conversation at the table was on the heavy side.
“I’ll take some more, thank you,” Jenny said with a bright smile 
that beguiled the mood at the diner-table.
“I’m good, thanks,” Trevor said absent-mindedly as he 
continued to look at that painting of a tale from antiquities.  He 
reached into his jacket-pocket and produced his smartphone. 
With a couple of swipes, Trevor had made a call.  
“Yeah, hello, is this Fazal Shehez; Mrs. Shehez’s son?  Ok, good. 
Look, I was calling to—.  When…?  Oh my god…heart attack?” 
He looked at Jenny, but she kept drinking her cup of coffee while 
she looked out the window of the diner; a knowing-look on her 
face.  “Yeah, my condolences, Mr. Shehez…Yeah, I’ll get in touch 
with you later about her things…No problem, Mr. Shehez; that’s 
what a good landlord is supposed to do…”
fin <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
The Secret Child
TOP SECRET
Senior Staff only
By order of F Fraderghast
Chief Historian, Bairnsley University
This historical document of Jonathan and Mr Goodfellow senior is of a private and 
confidential nature. If you are reading it without permission, I will track you down 
and make you do a week’s laundry for the entire university. More than that, your 
memory of the preceding year will be wiped, and yes, if you sat an exam, you will be 
repeating it. Imagine all that work going up in soap-bubbles.
Jonathan
NAME: Jonathan
CLASS: None.
SPECIALTY: Getting into trouble.
RÉSUMÉ:  At ten, Jonathan is still young for his age and although he is 
showing an aptitude for magic, he’s showing an equal aptitude for failing to realise 
his magical ability. It is a special skill that is driving his father, the renowned wizard 
Capro Goodfellow Senior, a little crazy. 
PASSED: Reading, Writing, Arithmetic and Swordsmanship. He has 
shown some skill at potions, including Granny’s Special Cure All and Sleepy Night-
Night Powder. 
Jonathan fidgeted. Trumpets and cheers echoed up and down the street 
outside. 
“Focus!” Mr Goodfellow Senior thundered, his voice echoing through the tiny 
attic. “Son, I’m selling you into slavery in an hour’s time, and if you’re going to get 
out again safely, you have to focus.”
“I don’t want to sit around here. Not today,” Jonathan moaned. “Can’t you 
hear? Everyone’s out celebrating.” He peeked out the window. Was that the King’s 
carriage in the distance?
“This is not a game,” his father harrumphed. “It’s life and death. Potsie, High 
Wizard in charge of prophecies, and new leader of the wizards UN D’Ground, was 
adamant, tonight is the last night to save his prophesied Secret Child…all the 
children. And you’re not ready.”
“It’s easy. I blow the snooze powder, they go to sleep, and then I pick the lock, 
and ta dah! We’re all out, and the children live happily ever after.”
“Hmmph,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said again. “You need to remember how to 
keep track of time, so you know when to move.”
“But I want to move now. I’m missing out on the fun. There will be jugglers 
and all sorts of entertainers. Last time sweets were thrown into the crowd. Dad, are 
you sure we can’t go?”
“I don’t see why there’s all this fuss over a royal child that doesn’t even exist.”
“My friend Nealz says the soothsayers have predicted one. They said Queen 
Tishke’s child would grow up to rule Avondale and fight dragons.”
“Hah,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said. “Knowing the charlatans the King 
surrounds himself with, that’s highly unlikely.”
Cheers of, “Avondale! Avondale!” echoed around the tiny attic.
“Are you sure I can’t go see the parade? Just for a moment. I promise I’ll be 
ready in time to free the slaves.”
“Dammit, boy, focus. This is the first time you’ll be on the inside by yourself. 
It’s dangerous. And it’s not as easy as I make it look,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said. 
“Now, you’ve mastered the snooze powder and picking locks, but you should also be 
able to throw an illusion. Just in case.”
Jonathan shrugged. “Illusions and wizardry are no good to eat. That’s what 
Nealz says. I’m good at the real stuff, like potions. And lock picking.”
“It’s all real,” Capro said, rolling his eyes.
Jonathan shook his head. “Nealz says magic’s just a trick.” 
“Good. Then learn the trick,” Mr Goodfellow Senior thundered. “Or I won’t let 
you go on this mission.”
Jonathan sighed. “Yes, you will. We’re trying to save children from child-
slavers, and you can’t get inside the pens, because you’re not a child.”
§
Jonathan wrapped his fingers around the steel bars. The sparse, dirty straw on 
the floor was neither warm, nor comfortable, only scratchy. This wasn’t the fun 
adventure he thought it would be. Already, he was cold and tired. And hungry. He’d 
given his food to the others, who’d jumped on it like starving dogs. His stomach hurt. 
He wasn’t sure if it was nerves or hunger or the magic antidote he’d taken to combat 
the sleeping powder his father had given him. 
Half a dozen heavy-set thugs wearing a mix of leather and chainmail sat at a 
rough-sawn desk playing dice under a smoky oil lamp hanging from a hook on the 
ceiling. They carried whips and swords and scowled at each other just as much as 
they scowled at the children. 
The little boy next to Jonathan was sobbing, trying to reach through the bars 
to his mother. Heavily pregnant, she was in a separate cage from the children. 
“Shut the hells up,” one of the guards yelled. “Before I beat you senseless.”
The mother tried unsuccessfully to shush the boy. 
“You’ll be alright.” Jonathan said, trying to comfort the mite. Some of the 
other children had piled together, trying to sleep, but it was like they didn’t trust 
Jonathan and this boy. “Hey, what’s your name?”
“Bounty,” he snuffled. “’Cos I’m going to be rich. On account of my ma said 
never be poor,” the kid whispered. “If you’re rich, you can do what you like. And you 
never have to sell your family into slavery.”
“Yup,” Jonathan said. “When I grow up I’m going to have a mansion and live 
happily ever after. I just need to make my fortune first.” He was sick of being laughed 
at for wearing clothes that had been fashionable a hundred years ago when his father 
had been a kid. And this getting sold into slavery was even less fun. 
As the night wore on, the temperature plummeted and the kid snuggled up to 
Jonathan. If he was going to organise the escape, he’d have to move, but not yet, it 
was too cold. He tried to remember how he was supposed to keep track of time. Why 
hadn’t he listened? 
The advice rattled around in Jonathan’s head. When you’re sure it’s the dead 
of night, blow a pinch of Sleepy Night-Night Powder at each guard and wait one 
minute. By then, it should be safe to release the prisoners. 
Was it the dead of night yet?
Almost all the guards were gone. Just one was left inside…
Only when he saw the first glimmer of dawn, did Jonathan realise he’d waited 
too long. 
There was no sound of conflict outside. His father, and his wizard friends 
should be there by now, shouldn’t they? 
Carefully, so as not to disturb the child, Jonathan disentangled his little arm. 
The boy whimpered and settled back to sleep.
The guard flicked a glare in their direction. 
Jonathan waited until the guard was looking at someone else before blowing 
the powder in his direction.
Time passed. Jonathan counted the seconds. It seemed like forever. 
…fifty-eight...fifty-nine...sixty. Why wasn’t the guard sleeping? 
At last, the man leaned back, snoring softly. 
Jonathan fumbled with the lock, his hands felt clumsy. His throat tightened. 
This wasn’t working, what did his father say? “Sesa moffne,” he whispered and 
wiggled the pick again. This time it clicked open. 
The sound echoed.
He gulped, terrified for an instant before he realised he hadn’t even woken the 
sleeping children. He pushed the cage door timidly—it creaked. The guard still didn’t 
move, so Jonathan pushed the heavy cage door the rest of the way open. 
Little heads rose. They jostled their sleeping neighbours awake and looked at 
him with big round eyes. 
With a finger to his lips, and a wave of his arm, Jonathan encouraged them to 
sneak out. 
They hovered close as he unlocked the last cage. 
“What are you doing?” a little girl whispered, brushing a dirty tangle of curls 
off her face. 
“Shhh, we’re escaping,” Jonathan said. “Just one more.” He unpicked the lock 
on the door with the pregnant woman. She rushed out to hug her boy, tears in her 
eyes. “Come on then Bounty. Bounty’s mum. Everyone. Let’s get out of here.” 
He pushed the heavy outside door open. And then quickly closed it again. 
Four slavers were sprinting toward them.
§
From behind his vantage of a huge oak tree, Mr Goodfellow Senior stared at the 
huge, bald giant-like creatures approaching. Thurgles. Seven of them. Over seven 
foot high, and almost as wide, they were formidable foes who believed that power 
made even their most evil deeds right. Worse, magic was completely ineffective on 
thurgles—and from the way those shadows at their feet were moving, it looked like 
they’d brought hell hounds. 
Potsie, you said we needed to rescue them tonight, and you were right. But 
where are you?
Mr Goodfellow Senior needed a fighter. Or wizards who could hold their own 
in a magic-free fight. But they hadn’t turned up. 
What was going on? They’d planned this. Rescue the young wizard boy with as 
little trauma as possible. Jonathan’s job was to pave the way, and stop the children 
from freaking out when the wizards arrived. All he and his fellow wizards should 
have had to do was subdue the external guards and maybe encourage them to try a 
new profession. 
For an instant Mr Goodfellow Senior wished the thurgles were giants. Giants 
were more reasonable. They generally wanted one thing, and it was to be left alone. 
His son would make his move soon from inside the rough-hewn cabin where 
the slaves were kept—if he hadn’t already. 
Should I rush in and destroy my very carefully-laid plans. Or stay behind 
this tree and wait for Potsie’s UN D'Ground?
He was about to rush in, when the fusty old Chancellor of Bairnsley University 
appeared. “I say,” he said. “What are you doing here? This isn’t a board-approved 
action.”
Damnable busy body, always poking his nose in where it wasn’t wanted. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior wanted to scream that there was no time for his 
nonsense. He clenched his fists. “Where’s Potsie?” 
“I ordered him and his stupid UN D’Ground group to stay back,” the 
chancellor huffed. “You are supposed to be on sabbatical, not embroiling Bairnsley 
University in your anti-slaving vendetta.”
“Get them here, now!” Mr Goodfellow Senior yelled. “Or, by the seven gods, 
I’ll turn you into a newt.”
“Stop your fussing. Who cares what happens to a few humans?”
“I do,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said. “And you should, too. Besides, if Potsie’s 
right there’s a wizard boy in there.” Two, if you counted Jonathan, but Mr 
Goodfellow Senior wasn’t keen on his son going to that stuffy old school yet. 
Jonathon needed to live a little first. 
The fusty old wizard eyed him up and down, like there weren’t better things to 
be doing. “What aren’t you telling me?” he demanded. 
“Old Potsie also said something about a famous warrior. And dire 
consequences if these slaves weren’t rescued tonight.”
“That Potsie,” the Chancellor said, and promptly disappeared. 
He’d better be getting help, Mr Goodfellow Senior thought.
Time had passed. Precious seconds. The thurgles were close now. Mr 
Goodfellow Senior could see their hellhounds clearly. A dozen of them, in all shades 
of grey from inky black to silver-white. If the thurgles let these creatures go, while 
half-starved children were being released, it would be carnage. 
What were the thurgles here for? 
Were they here for the slaves? 
Were they here for the slave traders? 
Or was it a coincidence? Were the thurgles just out hunting and determined 
not to come home empty-handed?
Five heavy-set thugs wearing a mix of leather and chainmail exited the cabin.
The fool slavers set up a meeting, Mr Goodfellow Senior thought. Those 
thurgles will never keep an agreement made with a handful of men. They’d take both 
the slaves and the slavers and not think anything of a broken agreement.
Mr Goodfellow Senior felt as if he were on the edge of a knife. Move too early 
and it would be slaughter, move too late and he’d never free the slaves. 
When the slavers were within twenty paces, the thurgles grinned and hefted 
their weapons. “We challenge you for your goods. Winner take all.”
“What?”
“No!”
“We had a deal.”
The thurgles roared with laughter and attacked. 
Suddenly the slavers realised their error. They were running, running back to 
the camp with hell hounds snapping at their heels. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior raced too. He had to stop the hounds. He threw 
illusions, decoy humans for the hell-hounds to chase. That only confused the 
creatures for a moment. 
In seconds the first slaver fell to the hounds. The other four kept on running.
Screaming erupted inside the slaver’s cabin. 
This should’ve been easy. An inside man, putting the slavers to sleep and 
helping the slaves escape into the waiting arms of Potsie’s UN D’Ground wizards.
§
Jonathan tried not to panic. The wizards would be here to help soon. “Quick. 
Help me!” But the children ran and hid. Some of them screamed. Only the little boy, 
Bounty tried to help, but even together, they couldn’t keep the door shut. 
If only I could lock it.
The slavers burst through the door. Pulling out whips they lashed the children 
indiscriminately. 
A whip raked the sleeping guard’s face and he startled awake, dozily looking 
around. “Get back in your cages!” the guard yelled, red faced and furious. He grabbed 
his own whip and laid about, nastier and meaner than the others. His whip drawing 
blood.
“Bit late to wake up now, Bazz!” one of them yelled, striking Bazz with his 
whip again.
“We don’t have time for this, Slimy,” the biggest one said. “We need to grab as 
many as we can and get out of here! Thurgles are coming!”
Screaming echoed as children dodged the slavers, desperately trying to get as 
far away as possible.
“This way, quick!” Slimy yelled, taking to the wall with an axe. 
Jonathan hesitated. It was chaos, and none of it made any sense.
Surely thurgles couldn’t be coming. 
But if they weren’t why were the slavers trying to escape? 
The only explanation was that his father must be here, throwing his illusions. 
What a stupid plan. 
Then Jonathan saw the boy and his mother were amongst the prisoners being 
dragged away. He rushed over as the mother collapsed on the ground, Bounty 
clutching her arm. “Mother!” he cried, clutching her skirt.
Jonathan tried to help drag her away from the brute. 
A whip slashed Jonathan’s back. He gritted his teeth against the pain, and 
kept on tugging. 
Rough hands grabbed his arm and squeezed tight. “Thanks for volunteering. 
You can come. And the other kid.” The slaver smirked. “It’s got to be better than 
waiting for thurgles to kill you.”
“Idiot,” Jonathan spat. “Thurgles don’t come to Avondale. You’ll believe in 
demons next. Hells, you practically are demons.” 
The man laughed as he kicked and hit at slow-moving children to get them 
moving. 
This was not how it was meant to go.
§
This is not how it was meant to go, Mr Goodfellow Senior thought as terrified 
screaming rang out from inside the slavers’ cabin. Any minute now the thurgles 
would bash the door down and the real mayhem would start. 
He had to think of something before that happened, but all he had was his 
wizard skills. Next time he went out adventuring he’d be sure to bring a swordsman. 
If I break in around the side, at least some of them will be able to get out.
Mr Goodfellow Senior sprinted as fast as he could, but before he could blast a 
hole in the wall, a demon burst through the roof. No not a demon, but a phantasm of 
some power. It crackled with magical energy and burst into flame. 
“By the Seven,” Mr Goodfellow Senior roared. “There is a powerful wizard in 
there.” He held out a hand—and was surrounded by slavering hellhounds.
§
Jonathan, still caught in the slaver’s grip, stopped struggling and stared at the 
red-skinned demon rising above them. Humanoid, with a bull-like head and sharp 
menacing horns. His worst fears had sprung to life. 
Don’t panic. It’s probably not real, or we’d be dead already. 
The slaver dropped Jonathan and Bounty and ran toward where the other 
slavers were trying to bash through the sturdy wall. 
The wood cracked. 
Why weren’t they trying to go out through the door?
Outside, Jonathan thought he heard the howling and yelping of wolves. 
Something very heavy smashed against the door.
So that’s why. Could it really be thurgles? Or is it wizards? Am I brave 
enough to look?
Bounty, shoulders shaking, pulled at Jonathan. “I made a demon,” he said. 
“And it scared away the bad men.”
“You’re very clever,” Jonathan said, even if the kid was far too young to be 
throwing illusions that crackled with fire. 
It had to be the wizards. Jonathan ran to the door, expecting to be saved, 
when the door smashed into splinters. A wolf leapt through.
No, a hell hound. Two hell hounds. Three.
Gods, what had Jonathan learned about hell hounds? They were almost 
wolves, but not quite. Fire was their element, so the fire and smoke from the demon 
would not scare them. Nor would the smoking fires in the straw, or the flaming brand 
Bounty’s mother was constructing from a chair-leg and straw.
Jonathan had nothing but his lock pick and the extra sleep powder. Hands 
shaking, he scrambled to find his hidden pocket. In his hurry, he tore the fabric. The 
Sleepy Night-Night Powder tumbled everywhere. All twenty doses. But at least he 
caught the Granny’s Cure All vial before it dropped to the ground. 
All around him people stopped running around and crumpled onto the 
floorboards, fast asleep. The demon overhead dispersed as the boy’s eyes closed.
Why am I still awake? Jonathan wondered. That’s right, the antidote. 
The hell hounds raced in and pounced on a tiny girl, sinking its teeth into her 
arm. She screamed and woke as the hell hound picked her up in its jaws. 
Jonathan leapt toward the beast and shook the pocket fabric at the hell hound. 
It fell asleep, releasing the poor child, who rushed over to a pile of children, 
before falling asleep on top of them. 
The hell hounds rushed around their fallen companion, nudging and licking 
the beast. They fell asleep too. 
The smoky fires were no longer confined to patches of floor. Flames licked up 
a table leg.
So many people to save! Jonathan raced around and tried to wake them, 
dragging kids from the spreading flames. They’d open their eyes, stumble a few steps 
and fall asleep again. The flames and smoke seemed to be making the Sleepy Night-
Night Powder worse. 
Thurgles burst in through the door. Real thurgles, not illusions, and they did 
not fall asleep. 
Of course they didn’t. Thurgles were immune to magic. 
“Hurry,” a huge thurgle yelled. “Secure the prisoners. This place is going to 
burn.” Using manacles and ropes to secure everyone, the thurgles worked as a team 
to slow the flames and drag the slavers and Bounty’s pregnant mother to safety, 
before coming back for the kids.
Jonathan did everything he could to drag the kids away from the worst of the 
blaze. Eyes watering, lungs burning, he collapsed in a fit of coughing as the crackle of 
the flames got louder. A manacle was secured to his wrist and he was dragged into 
the morning light knowing there were still children left in there. Dimly, he thought 
he saw his father slink away, and he knew in his heart that magic was for cowards. 
§
Mr Goodfellow Senior wanted to rush in and hold his boy in his arms. But that 
would be stupid. There were more Thurgles than him, and all of them were needed to 
slow the flames and drag the rest of the children to safety. 
“A good day,” one of the thurgles said, checking the chains on all the prisoners 
were secure, especially those of the brawny slavers. 
“Yes. Good workers!” the biggest one grinned. “Lots of money. And you 
thought we would only get the little ones.” Mr Goodfellow Senior almost choked. The 
thurgles were talking like the slavers had been the real target here, not children at all. 
Which meant old Potsie was right. If the thurgles didn’t see them as valuable they 
could be all be killed.
I can still rescue them all. I just need a plan. 
But Mr Goodfellow Senior couldn’t think of a plan—except to run back to the 
University to see what was taking Potsie and his D’Grounders so long. When he got 
to Bairnsley, he found them all arguing. Somehow the Chancellor had taken Potsie’s 
prophecy about a secret child and concluded it was Jonathan. Which was ridiculous. 
Yes, Jonathan’s identity had been kept from Bairnsley University administration 
official documents, but he was hardly The Secret Child. Probably. 
“Shut up,” Mr Goodfellow Senior shouted at the pompous fool of a Chancellor. 
“We can argue later. Did you not see the thurgles earlier?” 
As one the wizards turned. “Thurgles?”
“Yes. Grab every real weapon you have and run,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said. 
“If we wait any longer we might not have any children to worry about.” Mr 
Goodfellow Senior took his own advice and ran, Potsie and some of the other 
members of the UnD’Ground following closely on his heels. 
§
Jonathan woke face down on long grass. From the angle of the sun it was late 
morning. The slavers hut, not so far away, was little but blackened coal and 
smoulder. 
A woman was screaming. Bounty’s mother. The terrified woman was giving 
birth now! The shock must have brought it on early. Jonathan slipped the manacles 
off his wrists and sidled over, winding a chain loosely around his hand just in case a 
thurgle looked his way. Surreptitiously, he held the woman’s hand. She stopped 
screaming and whispered, “Bounty, my son, the trick is to stay rich. They can’t get 
you if you have money.”
“Yes,” Jonathan said, glancing over at Bounty sleeping peacefully nearby.
The thurgles ignored them, not seeming to care that they were the only two 
awake. Jonathan didn’t know what else to do, so he held her hand, letting her crush 
his fingers in hers as she breathed in ragged gasps and bit down on her hand to stop 
from screaming.
When the baby came, it didn’t cry. He held the little bloody bundle unmoving 
in his arms. 
Granny’s Cure All. 
He had it somewhere. He found the tiny vial in an intact pocket and rubbed 
the baby’s back and chest with it until it cried, fists bunched and screaming at the 
world. Carefully, he placed the squirming baby on its mother’s chest.
The woman, pale and spent, smiled and slumped in Jonathan’s arms. “Make 
yourself as rich as a king, boy,” she said. “Magic won’t feed you. There’s no such 
thing.”
“I will,” Jonathan said. 
She took a long harrowing breath—then nothing.
Jonathan tried rubbing the rest of the Cure All on her skin, but there was very 
little left and she did not breathe again—no matter how much he cradled her head 
and begged her not to die. 
Tears in his eyes, Jonathan swaddled her child in his shirt so it wouldn’t get 
cold. 
“Waste of time,” one of the thurgles said. 
“Might make a tasty roast,” another muttered. “My brother said roast baby 
was a fine delicacy.” They leered and started walking toward him.
Would they really eat the baby?
Jonathan had wanted to unlock the other children, but he couldn’t risk it. 
Instead he threw his lock pick at Bounty, yelled “Sesa moffne” and cradling the baby 
close, ran. 
“Stop!” a thurgle cried.
Fat chance thought Jonathan, hoping there were more slaves escaping behind 
him. He ran through the long grass, disturbing fat, lazy bees. 
In moments, the hell hounds were snapping at his feet, threatening to bring 
him down. He had to stop. The baby might not survive a fall, and if it did, it wouldn’t 
survive the hell hounds. 
He held the baby up out of their reach. “Get those hell hounds back, or I’ll kill 
them,” he lied, hoping the tactic would buy him time to think of something else.
“Hold!” A thurgle yelled, while his friends fell about laughing. Jonathan 
couldn’t see what was so funny. But his eyes lit up with hope, because, in the 
distance, a trail of dust approached.
Wizards? Surely they were too late. Already Bounty, and the kids the boy had 
managed to release, were being dragged back by the thurgles.
Suddenly, Mr Goodfellow Senior was right there, beside him. 
“About time,” Jonathan snapped at his father.
The wizards weren’t throwing illusions, or any of the magic his father talked 
about. They’d brought bows and arrows and were firing them at the thurgles. A 
thurgle fell heavily to the ground, the others all ran. Their leader dragging a chain of 
prisoners away: The slavers.
“Let them go,” a pompous wizard insisted when Mr Goodfellow Senior tried to 
get his fellow wizards to chase them. “I thought you did not like slavers.”
“Fool,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said, but did not argue more than that. Within 
moments only the children and wizards remained. 
“You saved that baby, you know,” his father said. “You should be proud.”
“Yes, you saved my brother,” the boy whispered. “But you killed my mother.”
Jonathan shook his head. “No. It wasn’t my fault. I did everything I could to 
try and save her.” 
I did, didn’t I? Maybe if f I’d had more cure all…
He tried to hug Bounty, but Bounty pushed him away. Then when the wizards 
tried to round the children, Bounty stamped his foot. “I’m not going anywhere,” he 
yelled. “Not with any of you.” Shaking, he conjured another demon image. 
“Hey,” Jonathan said. “You’ll be alright.”
“Do you even know where are they taking us?” 
“Most of the children have homes we can send them to, but you’re special. 
You’re going to Bairnsley to learn how to be a wizard,” a pompous wizard said. He 
waved his hand at Jonathon. “And so is this boy, who stinks of magic.”
“No. No, I’m not,” Jonathon snapped. “And don’t think you can keep me, I can 
escape from anywhere.”
Capro nodded, defiantly staring the pompous wizard in the eye. “He’s right. It 
was the first thing I taught him. You’ll just have to wait until he’s good and ready, 
because, mark my words, every child needs a childhood.”
“Fine, you deal with the baby then,” the pompous git said and stomped off.
§
Mr Goodfellow Senior watched his fellow wizards go. There was no way he was 
ever going to rely on them again. They were useless. And that included Potsie, and 
the UN D’Ground which he’d had so much hope for. 
And he still had one last problem—the baby with no mother. 
Jonathan was rocking the wee mite even as it screamed blue murder. “This 
baby’s kind of adorable,” he said in spite of the racket.
“You did a great job of rescuing him, but a baby needs a mother,” Mr 
Goodfellow Senior said. “Babies needs to be fed properly and you don’t have the 
proper equipment.”
Jonathan laughed. “Good, I don’t want a baby.” Although he did like the way 
their fists grabbed everything nearby. “Only queens want babies. When my friends’ 
mothers have babies they cry. A lot.” 
“That’s only because they worry about how to feed them. Queens don’t have to 
worry about things like that. They just have to worry about getting a baby in the first 
place.” Which gave Mr Goodfellow Senior an idea. “Jonathan, what did the 
soothsayers say about the Queen’s baby?”
“That it was going to fight dragons and rule two kingdoms.”
Mr Goodfellow Senior looked at the babe. It was definitely a fighter. One day it 
might even fight dragons. And of all the children he’d seen today, this one had the air 
of a famous warrior about it—it was sure yelling angrily enough. He tried to 
disentangle his beard from the babe’s determined little fist.
Together, Jonathan and Mr Goodfellow Senior snuck into the castle and 
offered the Queen the little bundle.
“Yes,” she said. “My goodness, yes. But it must be a secret, even from me.”
So Capro lay illusions all around to ensure not too many questions were asked 
and hours later, the birth of a baby boy, Sylvan, was announced with great fanfare. 
Days passed, and everything seemed to be going exactly as planned when the 
castle rather sheepishly announced Tishke’s new baby was in fact a girl. 
“Oh dear, I think I might have laid those spells around the castle a bit more 
strongly than I’d intended,” Mr Goodfellow Senior said to Jonathan. “I just didn’t 
realise the baby was a girl. Did you know? You must have known.”
Jonathan smiled. “That’s highly sensitive information. Top secret. Now let’s go 
out and celebrate properly.”
“Fair enough,” his old man said. And they went out onto the street with the 
rest of Avondale to celebrate their secret, out in public with a thousand other well-
wishers cheering the royal couple, and their new baby, Sylvalla.
THE END
Turn the page for a sneak preview of Quest… 
Quest Preview
The Birthday Party
Light pushed its way through the shutters and fought a torrid, losing battle with the 
dust in the old wizard’s attic. Outside was brilliant sunshine. Inside, the small beams 
barely illuminated Mr Goodfellow Senior and his son, Jonathan, on this, the old 
wizard’s 150th birthday.
Mr Goodfellow Senior looked pretty good for his age. His hair had long since 
turned white, his wizard’s cloak had seen better days, but piercing eyes flashed over 
his beak-like nose, and his old bones moved around the cluttered attic with the 
spryness of a much younger man. He chortled as he poured saltpetre and other 
dangerous chemicals into little cylinders. 
Jonathan looked suspiciously at the half-filled squib in his hand. Making 
fireworks wasn’t his idea of fun. It was not something ordinary people did, and 
Jonathan worked very hard at being ordinary. He also tried his best to be a dutiful 
son—he’d missed several excellent money-making opportunities to be here today—
but did his father appreciate it? No. His father had begun one of his endless rants 
about magic …
“The problem with any endeavour is that you must begin at the beginning, and 
sometimes the beginning isn’t as exciting as the middle or the end. That is the way of 
things. It takes time to learn to read, it takes time to learn an instrument and it takes 
time to become—”
“A charlatan,” Jonathan burst in, sick of the smell of sulphur and 
phosphorous, and tired of the expectation that would throw away a growing business 
to follow in his father’s footsteps as a demented butcher with delusions of wizardry. 
Most of all, he was sick and tired of this one-sided conversation. 
“How dare you!” Mr Goodfellow Senior roared. “I am a wizard of the—”
“By the seven gods, Capro!” Jonathan roared back, his fist thumping the table, 
scattering potions and flasks and little piles of powder. “There is no such thing as 
magic.” 
As if to deny his words, a firecracker rocketed upward, streaming pink and 
blue sparks before ricocheting off the ceiling and exploding in a shower of butterflies. 
Jonathan ducked for cover as they swirled around the room, their rainbow wings 
turning to ash wherever they landed. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior glared, his eyes burning fiercely between strands of 
white hair, his mouth opening and shutting in pure outrage. 
It took a while for Jonathan to realise it wasn’t the blasphemy, his careless fist, 
or even the explosion that had made his old man so angry. Jonathan had uttered a 
forbidden word: Capro.
“Don’t ever call me that again, young whippersnapper. Don’t ever call me by 
my first name. It ain’t right. I’ve told you and told you. But do I ever get your respect? 
No! All talent and no patience. Forget it. Just go. It’s not like I haven’t had enough 
birthdays. No need to make a big fuss over this one.” 
Jonathan attempted to straighten his tunic and wipe the soot from his face. 
“Um. Sorry.” 
“Why won’t you just toe the line and take up the family business?” Mr 
Goodfellow Senior asked. “It’s got a long and revered tradition. It’s the stuff that—oh, 
frag it …” The old man trailed off, his voice deliberately thin. “Nobody cares about 
magic anymore.” Then, as he always did in times like this, he pulled out an old worn 
stone and caressed it. “I don’t know why you fight so hard. Magic is power, son.”
“No.” Jonathan sighed. “For the last time, Father. I’m not wasting my life on 
this nonsense. I’ve got a career, a booming business. Contingency.” He patted his 
gold-filled pocket. “All you’ve got is the clinging stench of old meat and a large tax 
bill chasing you.”
“Keeps me fit, boy.”
Jonathan raised an eyebrow. What he saw was a bag of skin and bones held 
together by wrinkles. Someone who couldn’t make money out of his beloved career 
and had to resort to butchery to make ends meet. 
The old wizard sighed. “Look, boy, you’re thirty—almost an adult. It’s about 
time you started living up to your potential.”
“I’ve been an adult for sixteen years, I run my own business—”
“Grow up!”
“Hellfire and damnation, I am grown up. It’s not my fault you’re a hundred 
years out of date. There’s no place for wizards in the modern world. Half the towns I 
go to would string me up at the first hint of magic. Anyway, I’ve got places to be and 
the miles don’t get any shorter standing around here, playing with firecrackers.” 
“Ignorant fool! Don’t come looking to me the next time you hit trouble.” Mr 
Goodfellow Senior turned away, arms crossed.
Jonathan sighed. Again. Retrieved his battered hat and made for the door. He 
didn’t know what to make of his old man’s delusions. Being a wizard didn’t make 
gold pieces—not when anybody could make Granny’s Special Cure All.
Mr Goodfellow Senior almost retorted: that’s what you think, boy, I know 
many ways to really eat up the miles, but you’re not ready for them. You can only 
manage Cure All, and you don’t even realise it’s magic.
Unfortunately, nobody appreciates a mind reader, so Mr Goodfellow Senior 
bit his tongue and kept on biting it, as Jonathan grabbed his broad-brimmed trader’s 
hat and slammed the door, swearing under his breath never to return ever, ever 
again. 
As he watched his son disappear down the street, Mr Goodfellow Senior 
contemplated that it hadn’t been much of a birthday. Jonathan was just too wayward. 
Always had been. Besides, the lad was right, the world had changed. The old wizard 
could smell it. The world had become a darker, more dangerous place for magic 
users, and Jonathan, for all his protestations, was a wizard. He couldn’t hide it 
forever, not even from himself. Time was all he needed. 
But there was no time. Trouble was coming, and Jonathan’s untrained talent 
attracted danger to himself, and anyone near him, like giant moths to a candle. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior poured himself a cup of tea, and as an afterthought, 
poured another for his absent son. 
Jonathan didn’t come back, and when the old wizard went to empty the cup, a 
fruit fly was struggling in the amber liquid. 
It was not a good sign.
§
Mr Goodfellow Senior
NAME: Capro Goodfellow.
CLASS: Less.
FAMILIAR: With some of the less savoury additions that will help your steak 
and kidney pie go a little further.
SPECIALTY: Living. 150 years of it.
RÉSUMÉ: Has run several businesses in the meat line, all of which 
unaccountably went bust at the first hint of a tax collector. There’s speculation that 
the old man is a wizard due to his making of fireworks and the loud noises that often 
emanate from his rooms. Of course, these are rumours designed to scare small 
children and should not be taken seriously. After all, what true magician would stoop 
to selling Granny’s Special Cure All?
As a child, Mr Goodfellow Senior’s son, Jonathan, taunted a certain Dirk—a 
well-known and infamously temperamental swordsman—and disappeared shortly 
before his fifteenth birthday. Nobody was surprised. 
Despite expectations to the contrary, Jonathan turned up a few years later 
having established a career in sales—in a very distant part of the country. He now 
travels the length and breadth of the realm, hawking everything from ointments to 
jewellery. From time to time, Mr Goodfellow Senior is asked by a desperate mother 
to intercede with the temperamental swordsman. The only advice he’s ever given is: 
tell them to run like Hades and never look back. 
PASSED:  Unknown. Did they even have exams in his day? 
Mr Goodfellow Senior rescued the fly and looked deep into the tea, searching for a 
vision just beneath the surface. He was about to give up in disgust when a flake of 
saltpetre drifted into the amber liquid.
The tea rippled. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior gripped the table.
The dark liquid bubbled and steamed. A face coalesced from its seething 
depths and crested the surface. It had a hooked nose, lank black hair and storm-
cloud eyes. 
Startled, he rocked the table and the image shattered. 
Pressing his wrinkled knuckles into his forehead, the old wizard took a deep 
breath and looked deeper … 
This time a girl’s face swam into view. Not just any girl; a princess, about eight 
years old. Her frilly blue dress matched her eyes, and a diamond tiara perched on 
golden hair. Instantly, he realised she wasn’t a typical princess. For a start, she was 
practising sword fighting with a small class of noble-born boys. Her dress was ripped 
in several places, and her diamond tiara threatened to slide off. Even so, her fierce 
determination put the boys to shame as she laid about them with her training stick. 
A woman entered the room, ushering in half a dozen servants. The girl 
exploded with the fury of a wildcat, until, surrounded, she was dragged away kicking 
and screaming—her diamond tiara falling unnoticed to the floor. 
The scene slid, time passed in the vision and the girl grew strong and wiry, her 
sword ever within grasp. Strange that the princess’ parents had not yet stamped out 
the unruly and unbecoming behaviour—no doubt the royal couple were still reeling 
from the fact that they had created a girl, let alone a girl with such dangerous 
determination and a pointed dislike of sitting still.
The vision faded. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior cautiously searched for the wizard he’d seen earlier, 
focusing his efforts on finding a younger, less dangerous version. A young boy’s face 
wavered and swam into view, his bottom lip trembling, his eyes wide with either fear 
or anger as a man and woman, their mouths set in thin lines, thrust him into the iron 
grip of the Fairly University gatekeeper.
Across the muddy ruts of a deserted courtyard loomed a hideous brick 
monstrosity, half tumbled down and covered with weeds and creepers, and 
surrounded by iron bars.
Finding himself on the wrong side of those bars, the young wizard stared 
disconsolately at his new home. His bare feet oozed through the mud, before he 
climbed up to the doorstep and peered into the gloom. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior wrinkled his nose in consternation and tried to ignore 
the smell of dampness and body odour, overlaid by the lingering and all-too-potent 
smell of overcooked cabbage. Behind its drab façade, the inside of the building was 
mustier and less attractive than the exterior suggested.
Yet this is where the young wizard lived for many years—studying the ancient 
texts while the other boys gambolled in the university gardens. 
The boy started reading some of the simpler volumes written in the ancient 
tongue. Children’s books, mostly. But there was one truly remarkable tome. A 
treasure, riddled with bookworms and delicate enough to crumble under careless 
fingers, it was older than anything Mr Goodfellow Senior had ever seen. Its uniform 
writing could only have been crafted by magic, and on its faded green cover it bore 
but a single word, Biology. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior barely noticed the transformation as the brooding 
young man pored over the book with a feverish intensity, fascinated by the marvels 
flickering tantalisingly out of reach. Small changes of physique blurred over time, 
until suddenly the boy had grown into a man. Or more accurately, a wizard.
Time slowed. The young wizard stopped. His hand hovered in the air, his 
small eyes strained over his prominently crooked nose, his body poised as if on the 
verge of a great discovery. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior leaned over, his nose almost in the cup. What was it the 
boy intended as he sat at his small table consulting a marked passage in the book 
with such burning fervour? He couldn’t be planning to revive a beast of old—could 
he? 
Recreating such dangerous magic was far beyond the rules of acceptable 
wizardry, but the temptation was overwhelming; Capro Goodfellow could feel it even 
through the vision. He could clearly see the words on the man’s silent lips, and catch 
the glint of an eye, as the young wizard plucked a lizard from a fold in his robe. 
“Sphenodontidae! Hatteria punctata.” 
The young wizard stopped, his lips closed, his chest expanded.
“Stop,” Capro Goodfellow breathed, knowing there was nothing he could do. 
The young wizard stretched his palm over the book. “Make—it—so,” he said, 
clear as a bell. The lizard rippled and became—something else. Something wrong. It 
turned to stare at Mr Goodfellow Senior. No longer a harmless beast, its nearest 
black eye reflected a face it could not possibly see. 
Capro Goodfellow startled, almost losing the vision. He clutched at the cup 
with both hands, more determined than ever to see what would happen next.
A flash of magical fire lit the surface of the tea. The suddenly-hot cup 
shattered in his burning hands, spraying scalding-hot tea all over the table. 
Mr Goodfellow Senior stared at the mess in horror. There, scattered across the 
table, the tea leaves had formed the word: 
Quest.
Mr Goodfellow Senior reeled back in horror.
A Quest? 
He tried to put his fractured visions together in his mind: an evil wizard, a 
fighting princess. Maybe a questing princess? And somehow his boy, Jonathan, was 
mixed up with them. That was bad enough, but more than that, the magical fire 
worried Mr Goodfellow Senior. Traditionally, fire was the sign of dragons and power 
untamed. 
A word came to his lips—and remained unspoken—Asumgeld. For one 
hundred and twenty-five years, Capro had tried never to think of her. For one 
hundred and twenty-five years, he’d avoided the fate of his fellow dragon-hunters. 
Maybe the magical fire was from the wizard. 
For a fleeting moment, Mr Goodfellow Senior felt relief—then he realised an 
evil wizard powerful enough to hurl sheets of magical fire would be as dangerous as a 
dragon. More dangerous. The sheer strength of that fire was frightening—it had 
passed through the theoretically impenetrable barrier of the vision and etched itself 
into little white blisters across his hands. 
A vial of Granny’s Special Cure All soon alleviated the pain, but the cause 
could not be dismissed so easily. Jonathan was about to be caught in the middle of 
great events like a fly in water. 
Worse, there was only one way Mr Goodfellow Senior might protect his son. It 
was an extreme measure, but by the seven gods there was nobody who could stop 
him—not even Jonathan himself. 
The Princess Sylvalla
The Princess Sylvalla
NAME: Sylvalla.
CLASS: Ruling.
FAMILIAR: Swift, her pony, might not precisely be a familiar, but he is 
Sylvalla’s animal companion.
SPECIALTY: Escapism.
RÉSUMÉ: This princess would be renowned for her beauty, were it not for 
her unfashionably athletic figure, developed by pursuing aggressive masculine 
activities so unsuited to the fairer sex. She hails from a petty and insignificant 
kingdom, Avdale or something, not that it really matters. As expected in a princess, 
she has golden hair, blue eyes and is horribly spoilt. If she wasn’t a princess, she 
would not have been able to prance around with a sword and have her own way for so 
long. 
PASSED:  Killing, Sword Fighting, Hand-to-Hand Combat & Archery. 
Under protest, she also managed to scrape through: Diplomacy, Deportment, 
Reading, Writing & Arithmatic. (Arithmatic being a fancy word for a subject that is 
little more than the addition and subtraction and multiplication needed to keep a 
household’s accounts in order, and shouldn’t be confused with the more advanced 
concepts of arithmetic and mathematics.)
Sylvalla stared moodily at the rain falling outside her window. She hated every drop 
gliding down the opalescent glass with a quiet intensity. So much so, that nobody, 
not even her old nurse, could bear to be in the same room. 
Banned from the practice room for a fortnight—again. Worst of all, it had been 
for such a trivial offence. Wearing a sword to a banquet. Sylvalla couldn’t see what all 
the fuss was about. The men were allowed to wear swords whenever they liked. Why 
shouldn’t she also carry her sword all the time? 
Sylvalla blamed her mother. About a month ago, the queen had taken to 
dishing out punishments for the slightest thing. It was a worrying sign. Instead of 
being her usual easy-going self—she had become far too interested in what her 
daughter was up to, and worse still, in making sure that whatever Sylvalla was up to 
was stopped immediately. 
It rained for the entire first week of her imprisonment, so all Sylvalla could do 
was invent invectives with which to curse the torrent. She wouldn’t mind so much, 
but horses (Sylvalla thought of her pony as a horse) tend to have poor footing in 
boggy ground. She couldn’t risk it. Not after last time. Swift had suffered terribly as a 
team of horse-grooms dragged her pony out of the mire with slings and ropes. 
Sylvalla’s pride had also suffered. Everybody who wasn’t pulling had gathered 
around to watch the muddy princess and laugh their heads off. 
“Not again. Never again,” Sylvalla vowed for perhaps the hundredth time that 
day. Seething, she wondered what she should do now that her life was so unbearable.
In contrast, Sylvalla’s parents had been unusually happy. The queen chinked 
her glass against the king’s. “To a disciplined daughter,” she said.
“To an orderly household,” sighed her father happily. Drinking his wine with 
infinite satisfaction because he truly believed they had finally devised a punishment 
with the appropriate effect. This was obviously not the case, and the academic debate 
still rages—was this an indication of a lack of intelligence? Or a reflection of a lack of 
imagination? 
Either way, they were both discreetly mocked as fools by the rest of the court. 
(On pain of death, even courtiers can be discreet.) For everybody, everybody, 
everybody knew (except apparently, her parents) that a bored Sylvalla utilised areas 
of her brain best left dormant. 
The dignitaries, the staff, and even the stones themselves seemed to hold their 
breath with the knowledge that she would come up with something worse than 
fencing lessons. Or swords at table. Something big. Something that spelt TROUBLE 
in capital letters and then forgot the punctuation
Discover more about me and find my books at ponderbooks, or sign up for my 
newsletter never miss a story.
Copyright
The Secret Child © 2018 A.J. Ponder 2018
This book is copyright. No part may be reproduced without permission from the 
author, except for fair use permitted under the Copyright Act. Any resemblance to 
persons, living or dead, is purely coincidental.
ISBN: 9780463610930
Typesetting © A.J. Ponder, 2018
Sword and Flame icons © Craig Phillips, 2018
29 Laura Ave, Brooklyn, Wellington 6021, New Zealand
phantomfeatherpress@gmail.com
www.phantomfeatherpress.wordpress.com
 <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 

Vrolijk hart
Evi Parker
Smashwords Edition, License Notes
Thank you for downloading this ebook. This book remains the copyrighted property of the 
author, and may not be redistributed to others for commercial purposes. If you enjoyed this 
book, please encourage your friends to download their own copy at Smashwords.com, where 
they can also discover other works by this author. Thank you for your support.
Copyright 2013 Evi Parker
Alle rechten voorbehouden
Omslagontwerp: Evi Parker
Met dank aan Pieter Feller van Boekenbijlage voor de redactie van Vrolijk Hart.
Inhoud
Hoofdstuk 1
Hoofdstuk 2
Hoofdstuk 3
Over de auteur 
Andere boeken van Evi Parker
Hoofdstuk 1
Ik wandel niet, ik huppel door het bos. Gewoon, omdat ik een goed humeur heb. Ik ben blij en 
ik vind dat het een gemoedstoestand is die je mag uiten. Er is geen speciale reden waarom ik 
vrolijk ben. Vanmorgen ben ik wakker geworden, wat al genoeg reden is om blij te zijn. De 
zon scheen in mijn slaapkamer. Elke dag dat de zon schijnt, is een goede dag. Voor mijn 
ontbijt heb ik bosbessenmuffins gebakken. Perfect gelukt. Weer een reden om blij te zijn. De 
vogeltjes floten terwijl ik ontbeet en de DJ op de radio draaide een nummer van de band 
Imagine Dragons. Mijn dag kan niet meer stuk.
Elke dag begint op een goede manier. Niet altijd met dezelfde ingrediënten, maar er zijn 
altijd genoeg positieve elementen om me blij te maken. Mijn moeder zegt dat ik nooit heb 
gehuild toen ik ter wereld kwam. Ik ben lachend geboren. Dat is de reden dat ze me Joy heeft 
genoemd. Ik weet niet of het waar is, maar ze vertelt het aan iedereen die het wil horen.  
Het is een wandeling van twintig minuten als ik via het bos naar mijn werk bij het eetcafé 
ga. ’s Morgens is dat perfect, maar ’s avonds is het soms een beetje spannend, omdat het dan 
donker is. Pas sinds de laatste paar maanden voel ik me daar minder comfortabel bij. Sinds de 
sheriff vertelde dat er de laatste tijd veel half opgegeten dieren in het bos worden 
aangetroffen. Herten en konijnen die zijn gedood door een roofdier met grote slagtanden. 
Door een woest en gevaarlijk beest. Het zou dom zijn om daar geen acht op te slaan, ook al 
heb ik me nooit bedreigd gevoeld.
In eetcafé Forbes bind ik mijn schort om en geef Jim Forbes, de mollige eigenaar en kok 
van middelbare leeftijd, een vriendelijke knuffel. Net als elke morgen wacht hij met gespreide 
armen tot ik daar klaar mee ben en zucht alsof hij het vreselijk vindt. Maar ik weet dat hij het 
stiekem heel leuk vindt, want hij zegt tegen iedereen dat hij mijn favoriete baas is. Hij is ook 
de enige baas die ik ooit heb gehad, maar geen van ons beiden zegt dat erbij.
Ik help Jim in de keuken tot de eerste gasten komen. Elke vijf minuten kijk ik door het 
raam of er al iemand binnen komt. Ik wacht niet op zomaar iemand. Ik wacht op Luuk, mijn 
favoriete klant. Jim begrijpt er niets van. Hij zegt dat Luuk fundamentele sociale 
vaardigheden mist en de enige reden dat hij hem niet uit zijn eetcafé zet, is dat hij een goed 
betalende klant is.
Ik denk dat hij Luuk er niet uit zou durven zetten zelfs al betaalde hij nooit voor zijn eten. 
Luuk is een man die een gezonde dosis  ontzag inboezemt. Niemand valt hem lastig. Wat ik 
ook denk, is dat hij gewoon onbegrepen is. Wat hij nodig heeft, is iemand die hem niet 
veroordeelt om zijn sociale vaardigheden die, als ik eerlijk ben, inderdaad erg minimaal zijn. 
Maar wat veel belangrijker is, ik denk dat hij het wel probeert. Ik denk dat Luuk wel sociaal 
wil zijn. Of in ieder geval wil hij niet asociaal zijn.
Als de bel van de deur gaat, huppel ik naar de klapdeur die het café van de keuken scheidt. 
Daar tel ik zo langzaam mogelijk tot tien. Pas dan duw ik de deur open en loop beheerst naar 
klant die iedere morgen als eerste binnen komt. 
‘Goedemorgen, Luuk. Wat zal het zijn vanmorgen?’
Zijn antwoord doet het peper en zout stel op de tafel trillen. ‘Grom, grom, grauw, mopper, 
steak, grom, grauw, aardappelen, grom.’
Gelukkig spreek ik vloeiend Luuks en weet ik het moeiteloos te vertalen naar; 
‘Goedemorgen, Joy. Het is een mooie dag. Vandaag heb ik zin in een rare gebakken steak met 
aardappelen.’
‘Het is inderdaad een mooie dag, Luuk,’ beaam ik. ‘Steak, rare, met gebakken aardappelen. 
Komt eraan. Kan ik je ook wat te drinken brengen?’ 
‘Hrmpf.’
IJsthee dus. Mijn ijsthee, om precies te zijn. Niet dat spul uit een pak van de supermarkt. 
Maar mijn brouwsel met mijn geheime ingrediënt. En gezond ook nog, laten we dat vooral 
niet vergeten. Want er zitten geen conserveringsmiddelen of kleurstoffen in. Niets behalve 
eerlijke, verse, koude thee. En een beetje suiker. En natuurlijk mijn geheime ingrediënt. 
Ik dwing mezelf beheerst naar de keuken te lopen en niet te huppelen of te swingen. Heel 
graag wil ik een extra zwaai aan mijn heupen geven, maar ook dat houd ik tegen. Ik durf toch 
niet te kijken of hij het wel ziet. Als ik vanuit de keuken stiekem door het raampje naar hem 
gluur, zie ik dat hij met gebalde vuisten aan tafel zit. Hij is het toonbeeld van ternauwernood 
beheerste kracht. Hij ziet er altijd uit alsof hij op het punt van breken staat. De laatste weken 
wordt het steeds erger. Hij lijkt ook minder goed voor zichzelf te zorgen. Zijn spijkerbroek 
heeft een scheur ter hoogte van zijn dij en van zijn shirt mist een knoopje of twee. Zijn 
donkere lokken zijn net even te lang. Ze krullen over de boord van zijn shirt en vallen in zijn 
gezicht. Hij ziet eruit alsof hij de zorg van een vrouw nodig heeft. Iemand die de lijnen van 
spanning van zijn gezicht kan weg kan vegen. Een heel sexy look vind ik dat.
Ik zucht terwijl ik zijn ijsthee inschenk. Niet dat ik denk die vrouw voor hem te kunnen 
zijn. Luuk heeft nog nooit belangstelling voor me getoond. Luuk toont nergens belangstelling 
voor, behalve zijn steak met aardappelen en mijn ijsthee.
Jim gooit een dikke steak op de gril, telt tot tien en keert hem om zodat ook die kant tien 
seconden op de gril ligt. ‘Wie eet er nu ’s morgens om acht uur een praktisch rauwe steak?’ 
moppert hij.
‘Luuk,’ zeg ik overbodig. ‘Elke morgen.’ En ik mag hem die elke morgen brengen. Weer 
iets om blij van te worden.
Als ik zijn bestelling naar hem toe breng, is zijn blik gefixeerd op de ingang. Ik zet zijn 
steak en ijsthee voor hem neer, maar ga niet direct terug naar de keuken. Een tijdje geleden, ik 
denk een maand of drie, had hij dezelfde blik in zijn ogen toen er een boer binnenkwam die 
hem een paar dagen eerder er van had beschuldigd dat hij een koe van hem had gestolen. 
Luuk was uit zijn stoel omhoog geschoten alsof hij de boer had willen vierendelen. Zijn 
tanden waren ontbloot geweest in een wilde grauw. Zonder er over na te denken had ik een 
hand op zijn schouder gelegd. Half uit zijn stoel was hij als bevroren blijven staan. Ik had 
hem voelen trillen onder mijn hand. Nog steeds huiver ik van ontzag als ik denk aan de 
gecontroleerde kracht die ik onder mijn vingers heb gevoeld.
De boer was bleek weggetrokken en had rechtsomkeert gemaakt. Pas toen die met zijn 
truck uit zicht was verdwenen, ging Luuk weer zitten. Ik heb hem toen maar een extra glas 
ijsthee gebracht. Om af te koelen.
Een man en een vrouw komen het eetcafé binnen en lopen doelbewust op Luuk af. Ze laten 
zich niet intimideren door Luuk’s boze blik. Ze geven niet de indruk dat ze er gemakkelijk 
vandoor gaan, zelfs niet nu Luuk ze aankijkt zoals alleen hij dat kan. Maar ik moet toegeven 
dat dit niet zijn meest intimiderende blik is. Hij kijkt nu meer geërgerd dan kwaad, voor zijn 
doen bijna mild.
De twee nieuwkomers zien er duur uit. Dure kleding, dure kapsels, dure schoenen. Vooral 
het haar van de vrouw valt me op. Buiten in de zon glansde het als donker koper, maar hier 
binnen lijkt het meer op gloeiende kolen. De kapper die dat uit een potje kan halen, moet een 
fortuin verdienen.
Zijn ergernis negerend, gaan ze bij Luuk aan tafel zitten. ‘Goedemorgen, Luuk,’ zegt de 
vrouw met het mooie haar.
‘Hrmpf,’ krijgt ze als antwoord. De dure man knikt, wat hem niet meer dan een snuif 
oplevert.
‘Wat kan ik voor jullie doen?’ vraag ik met een vriendelijke glimlach.
De vrouw glimlacht terug en knikt naar Luuk zijn steak. ‘Doe mij maar wat hij heeft.’
‘Voor mij ook’, zegt de dure man.
Ik doe mijn best om ze niet aan te staren, maar weet dat ik daar maar deels in slaag. Ik kan 
niet wachten om Jim’s gezicht te zien als ik hem vertel dat Luuk niet de enige is die bijna 
rauwe steak voor zijn ontbijt wil.
‘Twee keer extra rare steak,’ zeg ik terwijl ik opschrijf. ‘Ook met ijsthee?’
‘Koffie’, zegt de dure man. De vrouw knikt. ‘Voor mij ook.’
‘Komt eraan!’ zeg ik vrolijk, maar inwendig brand ik van nieuwsgierigheid. Wat doen die 
mensen in ons stille dorpje? Zijn het vrienden van Luuk? Is dat haar echte haarkleur?
In de keuken kijkt Jim me met opgetrokken wenkbrauwen aan als ik de bestelling 
doorgeef. ‘Wat is er mis met wafels of pannenkoeken of een gebakken ei?’
Ik haal mijn schouders op en hoop dat hij opschiet met de steaks. Ik wil terug naar de tafel. 
Zien of alles goed is.
Met koffie en steaks loop ik weer naar de tafel van Luuk. 
‘Medard vroeg ons je op te zoeken,’ hoor ik de dure man zeggen. ‘Het kan gemakkelijk 
omdat we zo dicht in de buurt wonen. En met je dreigende LWS –’ De vrouw ziet me 
aankomen en legt haar hand op zijn arm waarop hij stilvalt. Ze bedanken me als ik hun 
bestelling voor ze neerzet. Ik wens ze smakelijk eten.
Luuk reageert nergens op. Hij snijdt met abrupte bewegingen nog een stuk van zijn al half 
opgegeten steak en propt die in zijn mond. Hij eet alsof hij uitgehongerd is, zoals hij elke 
morgen doet.
Het eetcafé begint langzaam vol te lopen. Ondanks de drukte vang ik zo nu en dan delen 
van hun conversatie op. Een eenzijdige conversatie, want Luuk zegt niets. 
‘… probleem wordt alleen maar groter,’ hoor ik de man zeggen. ‘gevaarlijk… we willen 
geen slachting zoals met… hier om te helpen…’
Met mijn rug naar ze toe, alsof ik helemaal niet mijn best doe om zoveel mogelijk van het 
gesprek op te vangen, ruim ik de tafel tegenover hen leeg.
‘Luuk, we zijn bezorgd om je,’ zegt de vrouw.
Mijn bewegingen haperen. Is er een reden om bezorgd om Luuk te zijn? Zit hij in de 
problemen? Is hij ziek?
‘Erg bezorgd,’ valt de man haar bij. ‘Luuk, misschien is het tijd –’ Luuk begint te 
grommen. Niet zoals mannen dat soms doen, maar zoals een hond dat doet. De haren in mijn 
nek gaan ervan overeind staan. ‘– tijd om het dorp te verlaten,’ maakt de man zijn zin af.
‘Nee!’ zegt Luuk luid genoeg om het hele café stil te laten vallen.
‘Luuk, denk er even over na…’ begint de man weer.
‘Nee!’ brult Luuk. Ik laat het opruimen voor wat het is en ren naar hem toe. Ik denk er niet 
over na wat ik zou moeten doen, en of hij me er überhaupt wel bij wil hebben. Het enige wat 
ik weet, is dat ik bij Luuk moet zijn. Hij heeft zijn vuisten zo hard gebald, dat zijn knokkels er 
wit van zijn. Het bestek op de tafel rammelt door de trillingen die hij veroorzaakt. Ik leg mijn 
vingers op zijn vuist, inwendig verbaasd dat ik hem durf aan te raken. Met een ruk kijkt hij 
naar me op.
Het enige wat ik kan denken is; wauw, wat heeft hij mooie ogen. Al zo lang hij hier komt, 
heeft hij me nooit aangekeken. Misschien maar goed ook, want dit zijn ogen waar ik van zou 
kunnen dromen. Ach, wie houd ik voor de gek. Van zijn ogen ga ik vannacht dromen. Bruin, 
met een hint van groen aan de buitenkant van de iris. Ze zijn prachtig, zelfs nu ze zo woedend 
staan. Maar die woede lekt weg terwijl zijn lichaam stopt met trillen. De uitdrukking die er in 
achter blijft, kan ik niet plaatsen. Geruststellend streel ik zijn hand en ik raak een beetje 
verloren in de textuur van zijn huid. De heuvels van zijn knokkels, de dalen daartussenin en 
het ruige haar dat op zijn vingers groeit.
‘Greham,’ zegt de vrouw met een waarschuwende toon in haar stem. 
‘Oh shit,’ zegt Greham. ‘Ik zie het. Zij is de reden.’
Luuk knippert en laat zijn blik naar mijn vingers op zijn hand vallen. Met een ruk trek ik ze 
terug, me opeens heel bewust van de grens die ik heb overschreden. Mijn gezicht wordt 
bloedheet. Ik draai me om en ren naar de keuken. 
Jim krijgt bijna de klapdeur in zijn gezicht als ik naar binnen storm. ‘Is alles in orde daar?’
‘Ja hoor. Waarom zou het niet in orde zijn?’ vraag ik geforceerd opgewekt, alsof ik me niet 
tot aan mijn haarwortels schaam.
‘Eh, omdat er iemand stond te brullen in mijn café?’
Ik bijt op mijn onderlip. ‘Oh, dat.’
Jim trekt een wenkbrauw op, wachtend op een verklaring.
‘Dat was Luuk,’ zeg ik, alsof hij dat nog niet geraden had. ‘Er zitten een paar mensen met 
hem te praten en… eigenlijk weet ik niet wat er aan de hand was, maar het is nu klaar.’
Zijn mondhoeken krullen omhoog. ‘Dankzij jouw goede zorgen,’ 
Ik loop opnieuw rood aan en sla een hand voor mijn ogen. ‘Oh god, waar bemoeide ik me 
mee? Wat moet hij wel niet van me denken? Wat ben ik voor handtastelijke serveerster?
Jim lacht even. ‘De meeste mannen hebben er weinig moeite me als een mooie vrouw hen 
aanraakt en ik denk dat hij er helemáál geen moeite mee heeft.’
Ik gluur tussen mijn vingers door. ‘Hoezo?’
Hij grijnst. ‘Weet je wel dat hij hier nooit komt ontbijten als jij een dag vrij hebt?’
Van verbazing laat ik mijn hand vallen. ‘Echt waar?’
Jim knikt. ‘Ik heb geen idee hoe hij altijd weet dat je er niet bent, maar als jij een dagje vrij 
bent, zet ik nooit een steak klaar. Hij komt toch niet.’ 
Ik gluur door het raampje van de klapdeur. Greham en de roodharige vrouw staan juist op 
van de tafel om weg te gaan. Luuk staart uit het raam. Jim geeft me de indruk dat Luuk hier 
voor mij komt, maar waarom heeft hij dan nooit iets gezegd? Hij heeft me nooit uit gevraagd 
en is nooit een gesprek met me begonnen. Tot voor vandaag heeft hij me zelfs nog nooit 
aangekeken! Ik schud mijn hoofd. Nee, het is erg onwaarschijnlijk. 
Ik kijk nog eens naar waar hij zit, nu alleen. Het is beslist onwaarschijnlijk, maar wat als…
Ik recht mijn schouders, raap mijn moed bij elkaar en duw de klapdeur open. Ik ga met 
hem praten. Wat is het ergste wat er kan gebeuren? Dat hij me afwijst en nooit meer steak 
komt eten. Mijn pas vertraagt en mijn schouders zakken. Dat zou jammer zijn. Erg, erg 
jammer. Aan de andere kant, als ik het niet doe, vraag ik me altijd af wat er had kunnen 
gebeuren als ik dapper genoeg was geweest om hem aan te spreken. En ik heb liever spijt van 
iets wat ik heb gedaan, dan van iets wat ik niet heb gedaan.
Vastbesloten trek ik mijn schouders weer naar achteren en been naar Luuk zijn tafel. 
‘Luuk, ik –’ Abrupt staat hij op, gooit wat biljetten op de tafel en loopt zonder een woord het 
café uit.
Perplex kijk ik hem na. Als hij uit zicht is, laat ik me zakken op de stoel waar hij heeft 
gezeten, die nog warm is van zijn lichaam. Al die maanden hebben we nooit contact gehad 
buiten zijn ontbijt om. Waarom heb ik dan nu het gevoel dat ik wel kan huilen?
Hoofdstuk 2
Het is al laat als er twee jongens, niet veel ouder dan een jaar of achttien, het café in komen 
stormen, vlak voordat Jim af wil sluiten voor de nacht. Ik ken ze wel. Een van de eerste keren 
dat Luuk hier kwam ontbijten, waren zij er ook geweest. Ze hadden hem de gek aangestoken, 
zoals jongens dat soms doen. Ik heb ze toen wafels met aardbeien geserveerd, afgemaakt met 
een flinke scheut chilisaus. Daarna hadden ze het te druk met het blussen van hun mond om 
Luuk te jennen.
‘Mevrouw Joy!’ roept een van de jongens, ‘We hebben uw hulp nodig!’
Ik trek mijn wenkbrauwen omhoog en kijk Jim aan. Hij fronst wantrouwend.  ‘Ik ben niet 
in de stemming voor grapjes, jongen. Al helemaal niet als het Joy betreft.’
‘Het is Luuk,’ zegt de andere jongen, waarmee hij direct mijn volle aandacht heeft.
‘Wat is er met Luuk?’ 
Hij stapt naar voren en kijkt me paniekerig aan. Zenuwachtig knijpt hij in zijn eigen 
vingers. ‘Hij heeft Peter, onze vriend, in de boom gejaagd en hij laat hem er niet meer 
uitkomen.’
Ik moet bijna lachen van het beeld dat het bij me oproept. Peter als een kat in de boom met 
Luuk als blaffende hond eronder. ‘Waarom hebben jullie mijn hulp daarbij nodig?’
‘U bent de enige die controle over hem heeft. U moet echt komen helpen!’ smeekt de 
eerste jongen.
Ik? Controle over Luuk? Niemand heeft controle over Luuk. En na vanmorgen... Ik 
betwijfel of de situatie er beter op wordt als ik op kom dagen. Ik schud mijn hoofd. ‘Ik weet 
niet wat voor magische krachten jullie denken dat ik heb, maar Luuk –’
‘Hij heeft een zwak voor u,’ onderbreekt de tweede jongen me. ‘Iedereen weet dat.’
‘Maar –’
‘Boer Hansen,’ valt de eerste hem bij. ‘Als u Luuk niet had tegengehouden, had hij nu 
waarschijnlijk door een rietje moeten eten. Hetzelfde met die man die zijn hond had geschopt. 
Luuk had hem wat aangedaan als u hem die hond niet in de armen had gestopt om ervoor te 
zorgen.’
Voor zover ik weet, woont die hond nog steeds bij Luuk. Hij heeft een klein hartje wat 
dieren betreft. Een zeer bewonderenswaardige karaktertrek in een man, vind ik zelf.
Ik kijk Jim hulpeloos aan, maar hij haalt alleen zijn schouders op. ‘Ze hebben een punt.’
‘Maar Jim, je zag hoe snel hij vanmorgen bij me weg liep toen ik met hem wilde praten.’
Hij maakt een geïrriteerd geluid. ‘Waarom verwacht je dat hij reageert als een normale 
man? Wanneer heeft hij je ooit de illusie gegeven dat hij net als ieder ander is? Bovendien, 
wat heb je te verliezen?’
Ik geef mijn protest op. En niet in het minst omdat mijn hart sneller begint te kloppen bij 
de gedachte dat ik Luuk weer zal zien.
‘Ik breng u wel,’ zegt de eerste jongen, mijn overgave juist interpreterend.
De jongen rijdt als een maniak. Ik houd me aan de deur vast alsof mijn leven er vanaf 
hangt. Mijn maag is als een bibberend balletje achter in mijn keel gekropen. Ik wacht 
nauwelijks tot de auto stilstaat voordat ik eruit spring. Ik zou de grond kussen als ik niet bang 
was dat ik dan met modder op mijn gezicht naar Luuk toe moest.
‘Het is hier,’ zegt de jongen met wie ik nooit weer in een auto stap. Hij loopt voor me uit 
naar een houten gebouw.
Ik zie nu pas waar we zijn. De Wildcat bar, de enige plek waar je hier na tien uur een 
biertje kunt halen. Ik ga bijna nooit uit, dus ik kom hier zelden, maar ik weet dat het een druk 
bezochte bar is. Niet moeilijk, als je de enige in de omgeving bent.
De jongen loopt om het gebouw heen en wijst naar de boom waar zijn vriend in zit. Maar 
ik heb het al gezien. Het is niet te missen. Peter zit drie meter hoog op een dikke tak en 
omhelst de boom alsof die zijn beste vriend is. Luuk staat eronder en kijkt boos omhoog. Ik 
kan hem hier horen grommen. In een ruime cirkel staat zeker vijftig man om het tafereel heen, 
maar niemand grijpt in. Ik weet niet of het onverschilligheid is, angst voor Luuk, of dat ze het 
gewoon allemaal erg amusant vinden, maar Peter is doodsbang. Ik weet niet wat hij heeft 
gedaan, maar ik vermoed dat hij er inmiddels voldoende voor is gestraft.
Ik wurm mezelf tussen de toeschouwers door en ga naast Luuk staan. Het geluid van zijn 
gegrom vibreert van mijn borst via mijn voeten naar de grond, alsof ik een menselijke 
condensator voor het geluid ben. Een gromcondensator. Ik lach in mezelf. 
Luuk is zo gefixeerd op de jongen in de boom, dat hij niet merkt dat er iemand bij hem 
staat. Ik steek mijn hand naar hem uit, maar ik hou mezelf tegen voordat ik hem aan kan 
raken. ‘Luuk?’
Het grommen stopt, en hij draait zijn hoofd naar me toe. Hij staart me uitdrukkingloos aan, 
alsof hij niet weet wat hij ziet. Dan fronst hij. ‘Wat is er?’
Alleen mijn diepgaande kennis van het ‘Luuks’ zorgt ervoor dat ik begrijp wat hij zegt. De 
woorden komen zo diep uit zijn keel, dat ze nauwelijks te verstaan zijn.
‘Je bent bleek,’ grauwt hij me toe.
‘Peter zijn vriend heeft me hier gebracht en hij rijdt als een maniak en laat me alsjeblieft 
niet weer door hem naar huis brengen,’ gooi ik er ratelend uit.
Hij kijkt naar mijn hand die ik nog als een vuist voor me houd. Ik laat hem langs mijn zij 
vallen. Fronsend werpt hij een blik om zich heen die blijft hangen bij mijn eens-maar-nooit-
weer chauffeur. Hij pakt mijn hand en trekt me met zich mee. Peter is vergeten.
Hij beent rechtstreeks af op de jongen die me hier heeft gebracht die geschrokken achteruit 
deinst tot hij met zijn rug tegen het gebouw aan staat. Met zijn vrije hand grijpt Luuk hem bij 
de kraag. Hij gromt en grauwt in zijn gezicht. ‘Met een dame in je auto, rijd je als een heer,’ 
weet ik zijn gegrom te vertalen.
De doodsbleke jongen kijkt hem angstig aan. Ik kan aan zijn ogen zien dat hij het niet heeft 
verstaan, maar hij knikt op goed geluk. Dat stelt Luuk tevreden en hij laat de jongen los.
Terwijl die maakt dat hij wegkomt, trekt Luuk me mee naar zijn auto. Een enorme, oude, 
roestige pick-up truck. Hij opent de passagiersdeur voor me en wacht tot ik ben ingestapt. 
Zodra hij zelf achter het stuur zit, draait hij de sleutel van de truck om. De motor start direct 
en spint als een poesje. Nou ja, eigenlijk meer als een grote, luie tijger. Het is vast ergens 
vastgelegd dat je zo’n beest van een truck niet met een spinnend poesje mag vergelijken.
Beheerst manoeuvreert hij de truck van het parkeerterrein af, de weg op.
Ik friemel aan mijn eigen vingers en bedwing de neiging om op mijn nagels te bijten. Ik zit 
in Luuk zijn truck. Luuk zijn truck. Ik giechel als ik besef dat het rijmt. Met een hik breek ik 
het geluid af en bijt op mijn onderlip. Luuk kijkt me kort van opzij aan. Arg, ik voel me als 
een meisje van zestien op haar eerste afspraakje, en dit komt niet eens in de buurt van een 
afspraakje. Luuk is gewoon een heer die een jonge vrouw niet aan haar lot over wil laten. Ik 
zucht. Een extreem sexy eigenschap voor een man.
Ik zet Luuk zijn sexy eigenschappen van me af en geef toe aan mijn nieuwsgierigheid. 
‘Wat heeft Peter gedaan dat hij in de boom moest?’ 
Een grom vibreert door de truck. ‘Was lelijk over aardbeien en chilisaus.’
Mijn aardbeien en chilisaus? Oeps. Een onverwachte consequentie op mijn reactie op hun 
getreiter. Ik voel me gevleid dat hij het voor me op heeft genomen. Ik probeer me hem voor te 
stellen in het harnas van een ridder. Het kost me totaal geen moeite. Zwaaiend met zijn grote, 
glanzende zwaard velt hij zijn tegenstanders om de bedreigde jonkvrouw te redden, onderwijl 
zijn trotse, zwarte paard besturend met zijn krachtige benen. Daarna trekt hij haar achter op 
zijn ros om samen met haar naar een gelukkig einde te rijden.
Ik schuif heen en weer op de autostoel, wat me weer een zijdelingse blik van Luuk 
oplevert. 
‘Wie waren die mensen vanmorgen?’ vraag ik om de stilte te verbreken.
‘Greham en Gwendoline,’ bromt hij.
‘Oh.’ Ik wacht geduldig af, maar er komt niets meer. Ik veeg een denkbeeldig stofje van 
mijn broek en kijk naar mijn nagels terwijl ik mijn nieuwsgierigheid probeer te bedwingen. Ik 
faal.
‘Vrienden van je?’
‘Zoiets.’
‘Je leek niet blij om ze te zien.’
‘Bemoeizuchtig,’ gromt hij.
Ik hap naar adem. ‘Ik?’
Hij snuift, bijna geamuseerd. ‘Nee, zij.’
Opgelucht adem ik weer uit. ‘Oh.’
De truck stopt en gaat uit. Verrast zie ik dat we bij mijn huis zijn. Hoe weet hij waar ik 
woon?
Voordat ik het kan vragen, stapt hij uit. Moeiteloos schuift hij over de motorkap van de 
truck om naast mijn deur te landen. Bij een ander had het er opschepperig en patserig 
uitgezien, maar bij hem ziet het eruit zoals het is; een snellere manier om aan de andere kant 
van de auto te komen. Hij opent de deur voor me en loopt met me mee naar mijn voordeur. 
Weer voel ik me een zestienjarig meisje. Het kost me alles wat ik heb om niet zenuwachtig op 
mijn nagels te gaan bijten.
Bij de deur draai ik me met een ruk naar hem om. Hij komt abrupt tot stilstand. Hij draagt 
nog steeds hetzelfde shirt als vanmorgen. Met mijn vinger raak ik een stukje stof aan waar een 
knoopje hoort te zitten.
‘Als je iemand nodig hebt om er weer een knoopje aan te zetten, dan wil ik dat best doen.’
Ik steek mijn hand uit naar zijn haar. ‘En ik zou je haren kunnen knippen.’ Mijn vingers 
gaan zonder toestemming van mijn brein door zijn donkere lokken. Mijn handen zijn wel 
vaker eigenzinnig waar het Luuk betreft.
Hij pakt mijn hand en trekt die zacht uit zijn haar. Daarna doet hij een stap naar voren, en 
nog een, tot hij bijna tegen me aanstaat. ‘Joy.’ Mijn gevangen hand legt hij op zijn schouder. 
Zijn arm glijdt om mijn middel. Als bevroren kijk ik hoe zijn mond steeds dichterbij komt 
terwijl hij zijn hoofd laat zakken, ‘Joy’, fluistert hij nog een keer en hij kust me. 
Het is als niets wat ik me voor had kunnen stellen en alles wat ik ooit heb gewild. Mijn 
brein is niet langer in staat om ergens toestemming voor te geven, want die is compleet 
overrompeld. Dus mijn handen doen waar ze zelf zin in hebben. Hij is een en al harde vlakken 
en pezige spieren. Ik wil elke centimeter van hem verkennen. Ik wil al mijn ledematen om 
hem heen slaan en hem beklimmen als een klimtoestel in een speeltuin. Als ik mezelf tegen 
hem aan pleister, gromt hij in mijn mond. Het is als niets wat ik ooit eerder van hem heb 
gehoord. Dit is een geluid dat van diep uit zijn keel komt, wat ik van top tot teen kan voelen 
en overal tussenin. Een heel tevreden en erotisch geluid. Ik wrijf mijn benen tegen elkaar om 
de behoefte die ik daar plotseling voel te verminderen, maar het wordt er alleen maar erger 
van. Hij zuigt aan mijn tong en speelt ermee. Ik maak een hulpeloos piepgeluid, helemaal niet 
sexy, maar Luuk gromt nog een keer. Dan verbreekt hij de kus en verlegt zijn aandacht naar 
mijn hals. Met open mond zuigt, likt en knabbelt hij aan mijn nek. Ik hou hem stevig vast en 
sla een been om zijn heup. Hij maakt er gebruik van door zijn hand achter mijn knie te haken 
en me hard tegen zich aan te trekken. Hij beweegt zijn heupen en ik voel de druk op precies 
de juiste plaats. Nog heel even en het kan me niets meer schelen dat we buiten staan en dat 
iedereen die hier langsloopt ons kan zien.
‘Luuk, kunnen –’ Ik word afgeleid door zijn hand die over mijn ribben naar boven richting 
mijn borst glijdt. ‘Kunnen we niet beter –’ Zijn hand omvat mijn borst en ik vergeet wat ik 
wil zeggen. Als zijn duim over mijn tepel gaat, kreun ik. Ik schrik een beetje van het geluid en 
kom weer een beetje tot mijn positieven. ‘Ga je mee naar binnen?’
Zijn bewegingen vallen stil. Ik kan zijn hete adem in mijn nek voelen, zijn ademhaling net 
zo zwaar als die van mij.
‘Joy, je hebt geen idee hoe graag ik dat zou doen. Hoe graag ik je wil proeven en om me 
heen wil voelen.’
Ik voel een “maar” aankomen, dus ik zeg niets.
Hij laat mijn been zakken en vouwt zijn handen om mijn gezicht. ‘Ik ben niet veilig, Joy.’
Ik knipper met mijn ogen. Voor mij heeft hij altijd veilig aangevoeld, dus ik begrijp niet 
wat hij bedoelt.
Met een zucht sluit hij zijn ogen en rust zijn voorhoofd tegen dat van mij. ‘Ik ben niet in 
orde, Joy. Gevaarlijk.’
De adem stokt in mijn keel. ‘Ben je ziek?’
Hij tilt zijn hoofd weer op en schudt van nee. ‘De dieren die gedood worden...’ Hij schudt 
weer zijn hoofd. ‘Het is ingewikkeld.’ Hij geeft me een kus op mijn voorhoofd. Daarna laat 
hij  mijn gezicht los en stapt achteruit. ‘Tot morgen, Joy.’
Hoofdstuk 3
De volgende morgen zweef ik dansend door het bos. Ik kon de afgelopen nacht niet slapen, 
maar het kan me niets schelen. Luuk heeft me gekust. Ik draai een pirouette en dans weer 
verder. Hij heeft dan misschien wat issues, maar het is vast niets wat we samen niet 
aankunnen. Als hij ziek is vind ik dat heel erg, maar dan wil ik er voor hem zijn als hij me 
nodig heeft.
Luuk heeft me gekust! Met mijn armen wijd draai ik in het rond. Een groep vogels vliegt 
op en vanuit mijn ooghoeken zie ik een konijn langs rennen. Dan voel ik een harde klap tegen 
mijn arm. Uit balans wankel ik naar achteren en val op mijn achterste. Als ik opkijk sta ik oog 
in oog met een grote, roodbruine wolf. Het dier schudt met zijn kop en wrijft met zijn poot 
over zijn neus. Hij heeft een prachtige vacht, als donker glanzend koper waar de zon hem 
raakt. Hij staart me aan. Ik kan niets anders doen dan terugstaren. Dan schiet hij plotseling 
weg en is hij verdwenen. Als mijn arm niet nog schrijnde van de klap, had ik me afgevraagd 
of het echt was gebeurd. 
Als ik bij het eetcafé kom, zit Luuk al op zijn plek. Ik glimlach stralend naar hem. Hoewel 
hij zelf niet glimlacht, kijkt hij ook niet nors. En hij kijkt me aan met die mooie ogen van 
hem. Een ontwikkeling waar ik heel blij mee ben. Ik zou uren naar zijn ogen kunnen kijken.
Zijn neusvleugels bewegen alsof hij iets ruikt. Hij fronst en pakt mijn hand om naar mijn 
arm te kijken. ‘Wat is er gebeurd?’
Tot mijn verbazing zie ik een dun straaltje bloed langs mijn arm lopen. Middenin het 
vlezige gedeelte van mijn onderarm zit een klein gaatje waar langzaam bloed uit opwelt. ‘Oh, 
ik had vanmorgen een botsing met een prachtige wolf. Maar ik had niet door dat het bloedde.’
Zijn kwade blik is weer terug. ‘Een wolf? Hoe zag die eruit?’
‘Wees niet boos op de wolf, Luuk. Het was een ongeluk.’
‘Hoe zag de wolf eruit, Joy?’
‘Roodbruin. Heel mooi,’ geef ik zuchtend toe. ‘Maar zoals ik zei, het was een ongeluk. Hij 
zat ergens achteraan en die vloog vlak langs me heen.’
‘Wolvin.’
Ik knipper met mijn ogen. ‘Wat?’
‘Het was een wolvin die je hebt gezien.’ Hij trekt aan mijn arm waardoor ik dicht bij hem 
kom te staan. Hij buigt naar voren. Met zijn tong volgt hij het spoor van bloed. Ik huiver van 
onverwachte opwinding. Oh god, ik wil die tong op heel andere plekken voelen. Als hij weer 
achterover gaat zitten is elk spoor van bloed verdwenen. Het gaatje in mijn arm bloedt niet 
meer en ook het schrijnen van mijn arm is over.
‘Goedemorgen, Luuk.’
Ik maak een sprongetje van schrik als ik Greham en Gwendoline zie staan. Ik wil mijn arm 
lostrekken uit zijn greep, maar hij laat me niet gaan. In plaats daarvan draait hij mijn arm naar 
de nieuwkomers toe waardoor ze het gaatje in mijn arm kunnen zien. ‘Dit gebeurt niet weer,’ 
gromt hij naar ze.
Greham staart als bevroren naar mijn arm.
Gwendoline slikt hard en kijkt me aan. ‘Hoe is het met je?’
‘Prima,’ zeg ik snel. ‘Het is niets. Ik had vanmorgen een ongelukje in het bos.’ Ik staar 
even naar haar haren. Een donkere koperkleur. Net als de wolf. Of wolvin. Wat toevallig.
Ik trek weer aan mijn arm. ‘Luuk, ik moet aan het werk.’
Hij verslapt zijn greep zodat ik mijn arm terug kan trekken, maar ik doe het langzaam 
zodat zijn vingers over mijn huid glijden. Ik moet mijn keel schrapen voordat ik kan praten.
‘Wat kan ik jullie brengen?’
Ze bestellen hetzelfde als de dag ervoor en ik breng het ze zo snel ik kan, in de hoop dat ik 
nog iets van hun gesprek op kan vangen. Maar hun toon is te laag en te zacht voor mij om te 
verstaan waar het over gaat.
Ik ben teleurgesteld als Luuk vertrekt zonder afscheid te nemen.
In de loop van de dag krijg ik het steeds warmer en ik doe niets anders dan mijn voorhoofd 
aan mijn schort afvegen. Tot drie keer toe kom ik in de keuken om een bestelling door te 
geven om er achter te komen dat ik vergeten ben om het op te schrijven. Als ik het voor de 
vierde keer doe, stuurt Jim me naar huis om uit te zieken. 
Als ik thuis kom, meen ik te zien dat er een grote, donkergrijze wolf op de scheiding van 
mijn erf zit, maar als ik met mijn ogen knipper is hij weer verdwenen. Ik schud het van me af 
als verbeelding. Misschien ben ik zieker dan ik denk. Zonder te eten ga ik naar bed en val 
onmiddellijk in een droomloze slaap.
De volgende morgen ben ik nog niet beter, maar ik voel me goed genoeg om weer aan het 
werk te gaan. Ik wil het Jim niet aandoen om de hele dag thuis te blijven. Hij heeft het 
gisteren waarschijnlijk al druk genoeg gehad omdat ik vroeg naar huis ben gegaan. Bovendien 
zie ik Luuk niet als ik thuis blijf.
Ik huppel of dans niet door het bos, maar kies het kortst mogelijke pad naar het eetcafé. Ik 
luister niet naar de vogeltjes en ik heb niet de energie om mijn gezicht op te heffen naar de 
zon. 
Jim kijkt me vreemd aan als ik hem niet begroet met een knuffel. ‘Weet je zeker dat jij je 
goed genoeg voelt om te werken?’
‘Ja hoor,’ zeg ik afwezig en schuifel door de klapdeur om te kijken of Luuk er al is. Hij 
gaat net zitten als ik de ruimte binnenloop. ‘Hey,’ zeg ik. ‘Steak, aardappelen en ijsthee?’
Hij gromt wat en ik tover een slap glimlachje tevoorschijn. Als ik me omdraai om zijn 
bestelling aan Jim door te geven, wordt mijn aandacht gevangen door een paar eekhoorns die 
elkaar achterna zitten. Het ziet er leuk uit. Zo leuk, dat ik mee wil doen. Ik wil achter de 
eekhoorns aanzitten. Misschien kan ik ze vangen. Bij die gedachte loopt het water me in mijn 
mond.
Ik voel een hand op mijn schouder. Ik draai me met ontblote tanden om en hap naar de 
hand. Bij het zien van Luuk zijn geschrokken gezicht besef ik wat ik heb gedaan. Geschokt 
sla ik mijn handen voor mijn mond. Met grote ogen staar ik hem aan. ‘Sorry,’ murmel ik 
tussen mijn vingers door.
Een glimlach verschijnt op zijn gezicht en hij begint te lachen.
Hemel, Luuk is een onweerstaanbaar stuk als hij lacht. Ik word er licht in mijn hoofd van. 
Ik laat mijn handen vallen. Ze beginnen zwaar aan te voelen. ‘Mijn beste glimlach kan geen 
reactie ontlokken, maar als ik naar je snauw ga je lachen?’
‘Het is zo ongebruikelijk voor jouw doen,’ lacht hij, maar dan lekt zijn vrolijkheid weg. ‘Is 
alles wel goed met je?’
Als de wereld ophoudt met tollen, dan gaat het vast beter, wil ik zeggen, maar ik ben 
controle over mijn woorden verloren en de vloer komt op me af. Het laatste waar ik me van 
bewust ben, zijn Luuks armen die me opvangen.
Ik droom van Luuk en een huis waar ik nog nooit ben geweest. Ik droom ook van Greham 
en Gwendoline, maar Luuk houdt ze grommend op een afstand. Ik droom van vreselijke jeuk 
onder mijn huid en een withete pijn. Daarna is er even helemaal niets meer.
Als de droom weer verder gaat, zie ik dat ik een wolf ben. Een hongerige wolf. Ook Luuk 
is veranderd in een wolf. Samen gaan we het bos in om te jagen. Luuk haalt een hert voor me 
neer waar we zij aan zij van eten. We laten niets meer van het hert over dan afgekloven botten 
en een gewei. Na dit overvloedige maal krul ik mezelf op en val ik in slaap.
Later draagt Luuk me terug naar het onbekende huis. Ik ben naakt, net als Luuk, maar het 
geeft niet, want het is maar een droom. Hij legt me in bed. Ik weiger om hem los te laten 
waardoor hij bij me op bed moet komen liggen. Ik kruip lekker tegen hem aan en val weer in 
slaap.
Als ik wakker word, weet ik meteen dat ik niet in mijn eigen bed lig. Mijn eigen bed is 
namelijk niet uitgerust met een gespierde, naakte man waar ik mezelf overheen kan draperen. 
Een man die bijzonder lekker ruikt, moet ik zeggen.
Ik til mijn hoofd op en kijk hem aan. ‘Ik droom nog,’ zeg ik tegen Luuk.
Hij rolt ons om, zodat hij nu boven ligt. ‘Dan droom ik ook.’
‘Wat gaat er gebeuren in deze droom?’
Hij trekt het laken een stukje naar beneden zodat mijn borsten worden ontbloot. ‘In mijn 
droom ga ik de liefde bedrijven met de vrouw waar ik al maanden gek op ben.’ 
Mijn tepels worden hard van de visuele aandacht die hij ze geeft. Hij gromt diep in zijn 
keel.
Ik kronkel van de vibratie. ‘Oh, dat klinkt goed. Mag ik meedromen?’
‘Jij speelt de hoofdrol,’ bromt hij en neemt een tepel in zijn mond.
Ik wriggel, kreun en schok onder de aandacht die hij verdeelt over mijn borsten. Hij duwt 
mijn benen uit elkaar met zijn knie zodat hij ertussen kan liggen. Ik beweeg mijn heupen in de 
hoop dat ik hem kan vangen. Ik heb nog nooit zo de behoefte gevoeld om gevuld te zijn.
Hij wrijft plagend heen en weer over mijn gevoeligste plekje. ‘Is dit wat je wilt, Joy?’
Ik knik geestdriftig en begraaf mijn vingers in zijn billen. 
‘Zeg het, Joy. Ik wil dat je me zegt wat je wilt.’ Hij klinkt wanhopig en een beetje bezorgd 
alsof hij bang is dat ik me bedenk, dat ik zal zeggen dat het een vergissing is en dat ik hem 
helemaal niet wil. Maar niets is verder van de waarheid. Ik wil hem net zo erg als mijn 
volgende ademteug. ‘Ik wil je, Luuk. Ik wil je in me. Ik wil dat je –’ Maar meer heeft hij niet 
nodig. In een beweging duwt hij zichzelf bij me naar binnen. Met elke stoot duwt hij me 
dichter naar de afgrond, dichter naar de hemel. Steeds dichter naar de plaats waar ik samen 
met hem naartoe wil. Hij bewijst dat het inderdaad een droom is, want niemand kan hier zo 
goed in zijn. En dan ben ik daar. Ik val, ik vlieg, ik explodeer. Luuk gooit zijn hoofd 
achterover en maakt een geluid dat het houdt tussen een grom en een kreun.
Het meeste van zijn gewicht ondersteunt hij met zijn ellebogen terwijl hij kleine kusjes in 
mijn nek en op mijn kaak plant. Ik kan weinig meer doen dan hijgen. Elke spier in mijn 
lichaam is slap als elastiek. Hij rolt op zijn rug en trekt me met zich mee zodat ik weer boven 
lig.
Het duurt een poosje voordat ik mijn hoofd weer op kan tillen. ‘Ik heb van je gedroomd,’ 
zeg ik.
Zijn mondhoeken krullen lui omhoog. ‘Ja?’
‘Ik droomde dat je in een wolf veranderde. En ik was ook een wolf. We hebben een hert 
gegeten.’
Zijn lichaam wordt gespannen. Hij kijkt me serieus aan. ‘Dat was geen droom, Joy.’
Ik snuif. ‘Natuurlijk was dat een droom. Mensen veranderen niet in wolven.’
‘Ik wel. En jij nu ook.’
Het laatste van mijn postorgastisch gevoel verdwijnt. ‘Luuk,’ begin ik, een beetje bezorgd 
om zijn gezonde verstand, maar hij laat me niet uitpraten.
‘Ik heb dat hert voor je gedood. Daarna ben je in slaap gevallen en heb jij je menselijke 
vorm weer aangenomen. Ik ben getransformeerd en heb je thuis gebracht, naar mijn huis. Hier 
heb je vannacht geslapen.’
Ik staar hem aan. ‘Hoe weet jij wat er in mijn droom gebeurde?’
‘Het was geen droom, Joy. Het is echt. Ik ben een weerwolf en jij bent er een geworden 
door de beet van Gwendoline, de roodbruine wolf die je in het bos tegenkwam.’
 Ik schuif een stukje bij hem weg en trek het laken strak om me heen. Ik wil mijn hoofd 
achterover gooien en hard lachen om de ingenieuze grap die hij met me uithaalt, maar achter 
in mijn brein maakt een stemmetje me aan het twijfelen. Tenzij ik praat in mijn slaap, kan hij 
onmogelijk weten waar ik van heb gedroomd. En hoe kom ik naakt in zijn bed? En de wolf uit 
het bos had precies dezelfde kleur haar als Gwendoline. En Luuk gromt en heeft het bloed van 
mijn arm gelikt. Ik bedoel, wie doet dat?
Maar een weerwolf? Kom op. Dat is te vergezocht.
Hij kijkt naar het plafond. ‘Ah, shit. Ik had moeten weten dat dit te mooi was.’ Hij stapt uit 
bed en meteen ben ik die onzin over weerwolven vergeten. Wat heeft die man een mooi 
lichaam. Gespierde billen, strakke buik en borstspieren om je tanden in te zetten. En met die 
man heb ik in bed gelegen, Met hem heb ik de liefde bedreven. Mijn Luuk. Hij kijkt me 
geamuseerd aan en ik realiseer me dat ik lig te grommen, bijna als het spinnen van een grote 
kat. Hij lacht als ik een hand voor mijn mond sla. Wat in hemelsnaam was dat?
Nog steeds lachend gooit hij een shirt op het bed. ‘Hier, doe deze aan. Greham en 
Gwendoline wachten op ons in de woonkamer.’
Mijn ogen puilen bijna uit. Greham en Gwendoline zaten in de woonkamer terwijl ik de 
longen uit mijn lijf schreeuwde tijdens mijn orgasme? En hij verwacht dat ik ze gekleed in 
zijn shirt onder ogen durf te komen? ‘Waar zijn mijn eigen kleren?’
‘Daar is weinig meer van over.’ Hij wijst naar een stapeltje vodden in de kleur van mijn 
rok en blouse. ‘Ze zijn stuk gegaan toen je transformeerde.’ Vanuit mijn ooghoeken zie ik dat 
hij een spijkerbroek aantrekt, maar ik kan mijn ogen niet lostrekken van het restant van mijn 
kleding op de vloer. 
Als ik niet in beweging kom, pakt hij het shirt en kleedt me aan alsof ik een kind ben. 
Geduldig maakt hij de knoopjes een voor een dicht. Met zijn hand duwt hij mijn gezicht naar 
hem omhoog. Hij kust me op mijn voorhoofd. ‘Liefje, Joy, het komt allemaal goed. Ik beloof 
het je. De afgelopen maanden heb jij mij geestelijk gezond gehouden. Ik ga nu hetzelfde voor 
jou doen. Ik ga nergens naartoe.’ Hij kust het puntje van mijn neus, mijn jukbeenderen, mijn 
mond. Een paar dagen geleden had ik er alleen maar kunnen dromen om die woorden uit 
Luuk zijn mond te horen. Maar dat lijkt wel een levenlang geleden.
Luuk houdt mijn hand vast als we de woonkamer in lopen. Greham en Gwendoline 
schieten op de bank uit elkaar als twee tieners die door hun ouders worden betrapt. 
Gwendoline haalt haar vingers door haar kapsel wat her en der omhoog gewoeld is. Greham 
trekt zijn stropdas recht. 
Luuk grinnikt, maar ik heb andere dingen aan mijn hoofd, zoals die uitermate belachelijke 
vraag die in mijn keel brandt, maar die ik weiger te stellen. ‘Ik ben gebeten en nu ben ik een 
weerwolf?’ rolt er uit mijn mond. Mijn schouders zakken naar beneden. Shit. Is het verlies 
van impulscontrole een bijwerking van het weerwolf zijn?
Gwendoline krimpt ineen alsof ik haar op de vingers heb getikt. ‘Ah, ja, sorry. Mijn 
schuld. Het spijt me zo.’
‘Jij bent de roodharige wolvin?’ vraag ik, maar ik weet het antwoord al.
Ze knikt. ‘Het spijt me,’ zegt ze nog een keer. ‘Ik had niet door dat ik door je huid heen 
was gegaan.’
‘En wat nu?’ vraag ik.
Luuk slaat een arm om mijn schouders. ‘We komen er samen wel uit.’
Ik kijk hem aan. ‘Heb jij niet al genoeg problemen? Je bent toch ziek?’
‘Ik vermoed dat je niet meer over LWS in hoeft te zitten,’ zegt Greham.
Gisteren heb ik ze daar over horen praten, maar ik weet nog steeds niet wat het is. ‘LWS?’
‘Het is een fase die iedere weerwolf meemaakt,’ legt hij uit. ‘Een soort puberteit, maar dan 
rond het honderdste levensjaar. Het veroorzaakt depressies, buitensporige agressie en soms 
een regelrechte slachting van de prooidieren in het bos. Alleen wolven die een wolvin als 
partner hebben, blijven ervoor gespaard.’
‘De meeste weerwolven trekken zich tijdens de LWS terug uit de maatschappij,’ zegt 
Luuk. ‘Maar ik wilde jou niet verliezen.’
Mijn hart smelt, maar ik ben nog niet vergeten wat Greham heeft gezegd. ‘Honderd jaar? 
Een weerwolf kan honderd jaar worden? Ondanks die, eh, LWS?’
‘Een weerwolf kan wel zevenhonderd jaar worden,’ zegt Greham. ‘En ik denk niet dat je 
over LWS hoeft in te zitten. Niet als jullie samen zijn.’
Ik kijk weer naar Luuk. ‘Zijn we samen?’
Hij lacht en ik smelt een beetje meer. ‘Ik laat je niet meer gaan, Joy. Ik hou al van je sinds 
de eerste keer dat ik je door het bos zag dansen.’
Daarom wist hij waar ik woonde. Hij was me door het bos gevolgd. En daarom wist hij 
ook altijd precies wanneer ik werkte en wanneer ik vrij had. Ik verberg mijn gezicht in zijn 
nek en sla mijn armen om hem heen. ‘Ik hou ook van jou.’
‘Je bent niet boos?’ vraagt Gwendoline hoopvol.
Verbaasd kijk ik haar aan. ‘Boos? Je hebt me Luuk gegeven. Ik ben je eeuwig dankbaar.’
Haar wenkbrauwen schieten omhoog. ‘Oh, als je het zo bekijkt…’
‘Joy ziet de positieve dingen in het leven,’ zegt Luuk trots. Hij laat zijn hand van mijn 
schouder naar mijn heup glijden. ‘En ik hoop dat we nu klaar zijn, want ik wil haar graag nog 
meer positieve dingen van haar nieuwe leven laten zien.’
Greham grinnikt en trekt Gwendoline naar de deur. ‘Als je haar alles hebt ‘laten zien’, 
komen jullie maar een keer bij ons langs.’
‘Kan nog wel een poosje duren,’ mompelt Luuk en trekt me in zijn armen. ‘Want het is een 
compleet nieuwe wereld.’
Ik spring op en sla mijn benen om zijn heupen. ‘Laten we maar beginnen dan.’
Einde
###
Bedankt voor het lezen van mijn verhaal. Als je het met plezier hebt gelezen, wil je dan 
een review achterlaten op Smashwords of je favoriete boekhandel?
Alvast bedankt!
Over de auteur
Evi Parker is het pseudoniem voor een inwoonster van Haskerhorne, Friesland. Een vrouw 
met een overactieve fantasie, een doorsnee computer en een blinde vastberadenheid om 
dromen op (digitaal) papier te zetten.
Ze is geen achttien meer, maar ze hoeft voorlopig ook nog niet naar het bejaardentehuis.
Evi houdt van alle dieren, behalve de agressieve steekmuggen die haar in de zomer klieren 
als ze een briljante passage probeert te schrijven. (Die steekmuggen zijn dan ook de oorzaak 
dat ze nog niet die ene passage heeft geschreven waardoor de hele wereld haar naam kent.) 
Aan haar vrienden zal het in ieder geval niet liggen, want die zijn goud waard, wat ze heeft 
ontdekt bij het uitkomen van haar eerste novelle Handelswaar.
Dank, en veel liefs, Evi.
Andere boeken van Evi Parker
Wolfhartserie
Ivoren Hart 
Andere boeken
Handelswaar - bij elke boekhandel in print te bestellen.
Website van Evi Parker
Facebook van Evi Parker
 Evi Parker   op Twitter 
Smashwords Auteurspagina <|endoftext|> 
 <|startoftext|> 
Wandering to Belong
Jess Mountifield
Copyright 2013 Jess Mountifield
Cover Copyright 2013 2KS
Published by Red Feather Writing
Smashwords edition
All rights reserved.
This novel is a work of fiction. Names, characters, places, and incidents are either the product of 
the author's imagination or are used fictitiously. Any resemblance to actual events, locals, 
organisations, or persons living or dead is entirely coincidental and beyond the intent of the author.
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only. This ebook may not be re-sold or given 
away to other people. If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an 
additional copy for each recipient. If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not 
purchased for your use only, then please go to any online ebook store and purchase your own copy. 
Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.
Acknowledgements
With thanks to my husband, Phil, for all his support, Adam, for his advice and critique, Keith for 
an amazing front cover and the rest of the team at Red Feather Writing for getting this story 
polished and ready for publishing with such efficiency.
And thanks to God, for continually being the best source of inspiration.
Dedication
To Phil. Without you I'd also have to wander alone.
The Village
The flickering lanterns and torches of the small village caught Aneira's eye. Her stomach 
rumbled as her mind associated the warmth and comfort of the place with good food. Over the last 
few weeks she had struggled to hunt enough to feed herself, and a village would have crops and 
other necessities she could trade for.
Making her mind up on that thought alone, she changed direction and trudged over the rocky 
grassland. As the evening darkened she lowered her head. The lights from the village would taint 
what little she could see in the dark of night if they were in view. If she also concentrated on each 
step at a time, it helped to keep her feet going when all they wanted to do was rest; something she 
had learnt long ago.
Sounds of the village soon greeted her ears and she allowed herself to look up at the hopeful 
sight. There were a few stone-built houses, not many, but enough to show good masonry, and 
another handful of wooden houses along the edge nearest to her. She imagined there would be a 
similar number on the other side of the village.
She looked for the shields of a chieftain or warrior's hut as a few people scurried here and there, 
eager to be indoors rather than out in the night. No one noticed her approach and she kept it that 
way, sticking to the shadows and hedges until she'd checked out the shield's design, if one existed.
As she snuck up into the shadow beside one of the pale stone houses, she noticed what she 
sought. A shield hung on the building opposite, just below a lit torch. The pattern wasn't one she 
recognised, which meant that this village didn't submit to any Lords she knew of. She would have to 
take her chances on the unknown.
She slunk back the way she had come to double back and enter into the village along the dirt 
track. Coming into the centre of the village in full view would make her look less like a threat.
Previously, she'd walked straight into any civilisation, but she'd soon learnt to be wary of certain 
Lords' holdings. When she crept in she found people were suspicious, and being driven off when 
she was this hungry didn't appeal to her.
Once she was out in the open she lowered her hood from her smooth black hair. She kept it short, 
to help keep it neat and tidy, but strands still framed her thin face. When she'd patted down her hair 
to neaten it, she stowed her bow on her back, and rearranged her small pack of belongings to make 
sure straying hands couldn't get into it without alerting her.
With slow, deliberate steps she made her way into the village. The first woman who saw her 
didn't even acknowledge she existed, and this helped Aneira feel more at ease. The next nodded 
briefly before continuing with her business.
So far they looked like a busy, but fairly poor, farming community with not much to worry about 
in terms of safety. There wasn't even a small jail or military-type building. Just the chief's house, an 
inn and a few other slightly smaller stone houses for the richer of the people, probably the actual 
land owners. She'd not seen any cattle, and there didn't appear to be any horses in the two-berth 
stable.
Most people had shuttered up their houses already and light only leaked out around older 
windows in need of maintenance. But the tavern had a few windows open and the noise of laughter 
and conversation greeted her.
As she reached the door she sucked in her breath, tried to look as harmless as possible, and 
pushed into the tavern. Immediately, the room went quiet and all eyes turned her way. She did her 
best to appear calm as she walked up to the bar and the man who stood behind it, drying some metal 
tankards with a dirty looking cloth.
“Good evening,” she said, breaking the silence.
“Evenin' stranger. What can I get you?”
“I'm afraid I've not got any money. I've been travelling a long while, but I can work hard. Do you 
know of anyone here who might need some work doing in return for some food and a bed for the 
night?”
The barkeep looked thoughtful while the whole inn around her remained silent. She knew 
everyone had heard her words, but it seemed none of them were going to help. Just as she was about 
to tell him not to worry and that she'd move on, he put his tankard down and walked through to the 
back room.
“Darlin', do yah want some 'elp with the dishes? Got a whelp 'ere who wants to do somethin' fer 
a spot o' food and a place to kip.”
Aneira couldn't hear the reply as the door swung shut behind the bulk of the owner, but it seemed 
like they were going to take pity on her anyway. Still looking young had its benefits. While she 
stood waiting for the landlord to come back, conversations around her started up again and people 
went back to their drinks. So far so good.
The door swung open again and the tavern owner stepped out. He held the door open and 
motioned with his head for her to go through. She smiled as she rushed around the bar to do as he 
asked.
As soon as she stepped through into the kitchen the smell of hot food assaulted her senses. The 
woman at the stove was almost as large as the tavern owner himself. They all obviously ate well, 
and with any luck would treat her to a similarly sized meal. She nodded at the middle-aged woman 
as she was being looked over.
“I'm Aneira. What would you like me to do?” she said after a moment's wait.
“The dishes need doin' fer starters, then we'll see what else there is.”
She nodded and looked over at the sink. It was stacked full of pots, pans, dirty plates and 
tankards; eating would have to wait.
***
Aneira sank into the wooden chair, not sure if the creaking noise was the wood as she sat down 
or her knees, from standing so long. It had taken her several hours to battle through the mountain of 
washing up, especially as every little thing that Heulwen thought might need cleaning had been put 
into the sink at some point. Her fingers were wrinkled and her nails had never looked so clean, but 
she had finally finished and the couple had seemed impressed with her work.
While she waited for the food she'd been promised she had a proper look around the inn. Now 
that it was later many of the villagers had gone to their homes, but a few remained and continued to 
chatter. Most of them were considerably less sober than they had been when she'd arrived, but a 
couple were still steady on their feet.
The landlord made her jump as he put a plate down in front of her.
“'Ere you go, lass, tuck into that.”
She needed no second encouragement and bit straight into the hot pork pie, following it with 
several shovellings of creamy mashed potato and gravy. Within minutes the slice of pie and mash 
had gone, and before the owner could return with a drink for her she'd started on the bread and 
butter beside.
“Thank you, Merrion,” she said around a mouth full of bread dipped in the gravy. She picked up 
the tankard and almost downed the sweet liquid. It wasn't something she'd ever drunk before, but it 
didn't have the bitter after-taste alcohol did, so she figured it was safe to guzzle.
“Well, that didn't take long. Will you be wantin' some more?” Merrion said as she wiped the 
plate clean with the last hunk of bread. Her eyes went wide and she stared at him for a moment. The 
plate had been a feast to her, and here he was asking if she wanted more. She nodded her head 
vigorously in case he changed his mind. The man just chuckled and she found herself grinning at 
how much of his body wobbled up and down, even after he'd stopped laughing.
Once he'd returned with a second plate, filled with an equal portion as before, he left her to eat 
and went back to his bar and customers. She took her time with the seconds, noticing an unfamiliar 
feeling of fullness in her stomach. It didn't stop her demolishing the food again, however.
The tavern soon closed and Merrion came and sat down with her, bringing her another drink at 
the same time.
“We've got a spare bed, up in the loft. You can kip in it when you're ready, then you'd best be on 
your way tomorrow and get as far from 'ere as you can.” The tone of his voice peaked her curiosity. 
It had been a while since she'd heard fear in a grown man's voice. Especially one who didn't seem to 
have anything to fear.
“What if I want to stay a bit longer?”
“You'd be a fool. You've got sense, I can see it behind those eyes of yours. Get yourself up and 
gone first thing in the mornin' and make sure you're as far away as you can get by the followin' 
day.”
“Why, what's going to happen?”
Whatever it was, the inn keeper wouldn't say any more about it, and before she could think of 
another way of asking to get him talking again, Heulwen came out of the kitchen and ushered them 
both upstairs to sleep.
***
With some fresh bread and cheese in her pack, Aneira set out from the inn to walk along parallel 
to the mountain ridge in the north. Heulwen and Merrion had reiterated their warning of the night 
before and told her to get herself as far from the village as possible and not look back.
Neither would tell her why, but they'd bundled up some food, helped her stow it with the few 
belongings she had, and ushered her out the door.
The sun had barely lifted from its embrace with the horizon and a chill still hung on the morning 
air. No time had been wasted getting her up and gone, but she had no intention to do as she was 
told. Whatever bothered them must affect the whole village.
There were several crop fields in the direction she headed and she could already see a young 
farm hand spreading seed in the rich dirt of the neatly ploughed furrows. As she saw him, a grin 
spread across her face.
When she was close enough for him to notice her, she waved. He waved back but didn't stop his 
job. The gate to the field was open near her so she wandered towards it and leant up against the 
fence post. After a few minutes the lad had reached her.
With a nervous shake of his hand he swept his blond hair out of his eyes and looked at her.
“Hi,” she said and gave him the warmest smile she could muster.
“Hi there. I've not seen you afore, in our village, I mean. You must be new.” Her smile grew even 
broader at the cute way he stumbled over his words.
“I'm just passing through. I slept at the tavern for the night. Now I'm on my way again.”
“That's probably fer the best. You'll be walkin' fast, I bet.”
“Well, maybe.” Just as she finished her sentence a new thought hit her. “I'm reasonably tempted 
to stay. There's food here, a warm bed, and well, nice people, like you, to talk to.”
The young lad almost dropped his handful of seed at her words and his face flushed.
“You see, no one's told me why I should be leaving and I'm wondering if, maybe, just maybe, 
there's more reasons for me to stay.”
“No, you should go.” His reply made her pout and widen her eyes.
“You don't like talking to me then?”
“No... It's... No, I like talkin' to you. It's just, you should go. It's not safe. Not fer someone your 
age.”
“You can't be that much older than me.”
“I'm not, but you need to leave.” His eyes went wider than before and Aneira knew something 
was making him scared.
“Why do I need to leave? I want to know.”
He looked away and shifted his feet from side to side.
“Come on, you can tell me. Who am I going to ever tell? I'm always alone.”
“Well, if you promise to leave when you know...”
“When I know I'm in danger, I'll leave the village boundaries. You have my word.” She beamed 
at him again, hoping he wouldn't notice the subtle way she'd adjusted the promise. He didn't.
“Alright, I guess it can't do no harm then. It started afore I was born. There's a group o' goblins 
up in the mountains, north. They came down and attacked the village, wantin' to eat us. There was 
no way we could win so the chief made a bargain with them. In return fer lettin' us live all year 
round, once a year they get to take five o' the villagers. The five are picked by council each year, 
whoever's the least 'elp to us.”
Aneira could hardly believe what she was hearing. The thought of them being so callous shocked 
her. The boy obviously noticed her face.
“Don't think we don't care about the ones sacrificed. If we had any other way o' savin' the 
village, we would. There just ain't enough men who know how to fight, and the goblins are crafty; 
sometimes they don't accept who we offer, then they pick the strongest and fastest, any they think 
might one day try and fight back. We all know a few die to save the rest.”
“But it keeps happening, year after year?”
“Ahhah,” he nodded, “Every year they come back for more.”
“So these goblins are due tomorrow?” The boy's head bobbed up and down again. “How many 
are there?”
He looked blankly at her.
“How many goblins are there in the mountains?” she said, clarifying the meaning behind her 
question.
“I dunno. More than we have people to fight.”
“How many able villagers are there, I mean besides you?”
“I dunno how to fight,” he said, blushing for the second time. “Why do you wanna know this 
anyway? You should get goin'. Like you promised.”
“I will in a moment, but before I do I have two more questions. Both are very important.”
“All right, but be quick, you've already wasted lots o' time.”
“Firstly, how many goblins come to collect the sacrifices each year? And what's the name of the 
lovely guy I just met?”
He furrowed his brow for a moment, not understanding her last question at all, but she didn't say 
anything. Eventually the penny dropped.
“Oh, my name's Gwain. And, er, I think last year there were 'bout twenty goblins in the village. 
Nasty things they are too.”
“Thank you, Gwain. I'm Aneira.” She stood on the ends of her toes and kissed his cheek. “I'll get 
going now.”
He nodded, overcome and unable to speak. She waved and walked off down the little lane 
between the fields. Despite her promise, she had no intention of leaving. These people had been 
lovely to her since she'd arrived the night before and, if she could, she wanted to help them.
The goblins were only asking for five people per year, which was probably as many children as 
the villagers had per year. With any luck, that meant there weren't many more goblins than Gwain 
had seen. It left her a little mystified as to why the villagers couldn't deal with the problem 
themselves. She estimated the goblin numbers to have to be at least thirty or so before the village 
would be unable to cope.
Aneira had dealt with small bands of goblins before and knew that even if she couldn't stop this 
year's sacrifice from happening, if she could find out where they lived she would be able to pick off 
a few at a time and hopefully whittle down their numbers to the point where the village could finish 
them off. This all assumed her luck didn't run out and she wasn't killed by the goblins in one of her 
guerrilla attacks, but she knew she was likely to be a better fighter than any warrior in the small 
village she'd just left behind.
Being alone had forced her to learn fast, and her archery was lightning-quick, even if it wasn't 
always perfectly accurate. On top of that, she could cause a lot of damage with traps. All she needed 
to do was find out where they were and sneak around them.
When the village was so far behind her none of its residents could be seen, she changed direction 
and headed north. The farther she went the more the ground changed from the soft dirt the village 
farmed into the rocky terrain of the skirts of the mountain. She slowed and kept her eyes peeled for 
movement up ahead.
As the day wore on, she made an effort to keep near the shelter of the trees and bushes dotting 
the landscape. If goblins did come into sight, she wanted to hide as soon as possible. It would not be 
good if they saw her. This led to a weaving pattern in her path as she wound her way around open 
spaces.
By the time the afternoon was almost gone she had covered less than eight miles of terrain north, 
and the mountains still loomed ahead. She noticed an old building off to the east that had blended 
into the mountain's rock-face until she'd got this close. There were very few roofs left, and several 
walls and rooms had crumbled away from neglect and weathering, but the ruin looked like it had 
once been a very large and impressive castle.
Eventually, she noticed a thick set of gorse bushes she could hide in the centre of to await signs 
of the goblins. By now she'd hoped to find them, but it seemed they would travel past this point 
sometime in the night. She shuddered when she thought of their intentions and settled down for the 
wait, using extra branches and dirt to further conceal her temporary hiding place.
Once she'd eaten some of her rations, she made herself comfortable to wait for the dusk to come 
and finish shielding her from sight. Hopefully, the goblins would carry torches to light the way and 
she'd see them pass nearby. Her viewpoint was near the top of the hill and it spread out for a fair 
distance around her, making an excellent vantage point, so it was likely she'd spot the goblins 
without needing to move.
***
Aneira rubbed her hands over her eyes, trying to force them to stay open. It didn't help. Both her 
legs had gone to sleep and her fingers were stiff from the cold night air. Dawn was still a long way 
off. Reaching into her pack, she pulled out a small hunk of the cheese and nibbled on it. At the very 
least if, she fell asleep after eating it, she would get nightmares in recompense for her folly.
When her eyelids drooped for the fifth time that minute she realised she would need to move 
soon or sleep would overtake her senses. She stifled a yawn and lifted her torso off the ground. As 
soon as she was crouched, still able to scan the horizon around her, she re-strapped her pack and 
quiver to her back, making sure they were exactly where they needed to be, before picking up her 
bow.
Cramp filled her right hand as it clasped the thin wood her weapon was made from. She had let 
her fingers get too cold. After emptying her hand again she brought both up to her mouth and blew 
the warmer air from her lungs over them. Once they thawed a little she flexed her fingers, trying to 
work the warmth back through to the depths of the bone, but she still couldn't grip her bow yet.
All the while, as she did this, she kept her eyes on the terrain around her. She blinked a few times 
as she realised up ahead and to the right a flame was bobbing along. At first she wasn't completely 
sure that her eyes weren't playing tricks on her and just seeing what they'd wanted to see all night, 
but as time passed she became convinced a small party was moving in the direction of the village.
As the light came closer, she hunkered back down into her little den and tried to make out who 
carried it. She soon realised there were actually several lights, and they were farther off to her right 
than she'd originally estimated. Not wanting them to get out of sight before she'd established 
whether they were goblins or not, she got up from her hiding place and moved as silently as she 
could in their direction.
Before she could get much closer they had already passed perpendicular to her original position, 
placing her behind whoever moved through the night. Over the next few minutes she curved her 
path to get closer to the walkers and could soon make out the outlines of the gangly dark green 
creatures that everyone called goblins.
They shuffled along, a group of twenty-six by her rough count. There were five torches amongst 
them and they were all armed to the teeth with a selection of maces, swords, shields, helmets and 
spears; there was even a quiver or two that she thought she saw, strapped to a few of the knobbly 
backs.
She kept her distance and snuck along after them, repeating her pattern of moving between the 
cover the terrain provided. There was little chance that they would see her while it was still dark but 
dawn was not far off and then she would need to be very careful. She had never hunted goblins like 
this before; deer and other wild animals, but never something that would turn around and kill her if 
she was noticed.
As she slunk over rocks and around bushes, her tiredness dropped from her limbs to be replaced 
by the slight buzz of adrenaline. Despite her lack of sleep she felt fresh and revitalised. The 
abundance of food the evening before had probably helped. She hadn't eaten like that in months.
A few hours passed and the sky turned from its deep, star-studded black to the blue of dawn. 
Now Aneira's skills would be put to the test. She dropped back from the goblins and crouched 
behind bushes at the first hint that any of them would look back.
Even if she had to drop behind so they were out of sight, it wouldn't matter now. The light was 
showing her a path created by their feet and blades. They trampled everything and hacked at any 
branches that came too close.
When the sun rose to run through another day she dropped back further still and let the goblins 
become specks of green and movement on the horizon. Now she could move out in the open a bit 
more without them noticing her.
Either because they didn't like the sunlight, or because they were late, they picked up the pace 
and she matched it, not wanting them to be too far ahead.
While she followed, she started to plan how she would attack. She needed to somehow gather 
them into smaller groups and pick them off. She didn't have enough arrows for every single one of 
them either, so traps would be needed. If she had known where they were coming from in advance 
she could have laid many traps the previous day, but that couldn't be helped now.
Along the way she spotted several places to set good death traps but didn't have the time to stop 
and make them; not even the most simple of set-ups.
She frowned as she also realised the goblins ahead had sped up for the second time and were 
now out of sight. Almost all of the eight miles she had travelled the day before she had now 
retraced.
Aneira stopped at the next place she saw where she could make a trap. The goblins were going to 
the village and would come back this way. On top of that, she finally had some kind of attack plan. 
It made no sense to follow them any longer and use up energy she could employ elsewhere.
She nibbled on some more bread and cheese as she looked over the site she'd chosen for the first 
trap, as well as the resources nearby, at her disposal. There were a lot of bushes and branches but 
not much else, so she decided to build a simple pit trap and fill it with spikes. It would take a while 
but wouldn't use up anything she carried with her.
After pulling out her knife, she hacked off a nearby branch and began sharpening the end. The 
noise of wood being shaved off filled the air around her as she quickly worked. Within minutes 
she'd made a small pile of stakes at her feet.
While she was reaching for another branch to use she heard the sound of something behind her. 
She turned to see five goblin scouts aiming arrows right at her.
“What do we 'ave 'ere? We've been watchin' you follow us fer some time now, little girl. Why 
don't you come wiv us so you can explain to our boss why?” the middle goblin said in a deep harsh 
voice.
Aneira frowned as they shoved her forwards and took her knife right out of her hands. There was 
no point fighting back, so she let them take her bow and quiver as well. Thankfully, her cloak hid 
her small pack and they didn't notice it was there to remove. In the open, as they were, she had no 
hope of beating them in a fight. As she walked she mentally kicked herself for letting them capture 
her. She should have suspected there would be more, and not stayed where she could be so easily 
spotted.
None of them spoke to her but they force marched her at a fast pace to catch up with the group 
ahead. By this point the village itself was not far off and she could see smoke from their chimneys 
as well as just about identify the scarecrow from Gwain's field.
The goblins ahead soon saw her and the scouts, and stopped to hear about her capture. There was 
a slightly bigger goblin, whose eyes bulged when he glared. He had a leather jerkin on, compared to 
only the bare chests and loin cloths of the others.
She tried not to let her fear show when she realised she was now surrounded by over thirty of the 
smelly creatures and the leader was staring right at her. His eyes swept over her and a grin showed 
his crooked teeth that were stained so badly they were almost black.
“Well, well, we've got extras today boys.” The odour on his breath assaulted her nose, making 
her sway back in disgust. They all sniggered at her.
“We found 'er tryin' to sneak up on you lot and layin' some sort o' trap,” the goblin who captured 
her said.
“Well, sneak. Is that what you were tryin'?”
“No, I was trying to make a hide to sleep for a few hours. Why don't you let me go? I'm just a 
simple wanderer, I'll be right on my way.”
This garnered even more of the raucous noise the goblins made in place of laughing. No 
surprises that they weren't going to let her go. She hadn't really thought they would, but anything 
was worth a try.
“Come on, we've got places to be, and you'll be extra meat fer our feastin'.”
A hand shoved her from behind again and she wobbled precariously before finding her balance. 
With a gloomy expression, she allowed herself to be marched right back into the village. The hustle 
and bustle she'd seen the morning before had gone completely. Each house was fully shuttered up 
and no one was outside.
The goblin horde strode right into the centre of the village and made themselves comfortable 
around the well there. For the moment, she found herself a little less surrounded. She pinpointed the 
goblin who had her weaponry and slowly meandered a little closer to him.
“I'm not fond o' waitin'. Bring out our gift!” the leader yelled before she could get very far. She 
stopped dead in her tracks, wracking her brains for something she could do to stop this carnage.
The door to the chief's house opened up and a middle aged man with a fiery red beard walked 
out. Behind him filed five much younger villagers, four boys and one girl, their hands bound and 
each one gagged. Several had tear-stained faces but none of them made a sound now, with only their 
eyes betraying the fear they all felt.
Following them was Gwain, holding the other end of the rope that bound them all together and 
ensuring none of them could run. His eyes remained downcast as the goblin and chief stared each 
other down for a moment. She knew this couldn't be easy for any of them, but surely fighting was 
better.
As the prisoners were released to be handed over, Gwain looked up. His eyes went wide as he 
saw her and realised she was also their captive.
“Aneira, I told you to get as far away as possible!” he yelled. She stifled her groan as every 
goblin took notice.
“So you were spyin' on us, you little sneak. You'll pay for lyin'. We don't like being lied to and 
we'll make sure you squeal plenty for it, won't we, boys?” There were more chuckles and sneers 
from the goblins around her.
“All right. I admit. I was following you. I want you to take me instead of these five.” She 
immediately noticed the hopeful looks on the faces of the five, “Let them go. I'm worth all of them. 
I could easily hunt and kill all five and...”
“Shut up, you maggot. I ain't making no different bargains. You'll come along like the rest o' 
them.”
Aneira could have screamed in frustration at that moment but she knew it wouldn't have helped. 
Instead, she turned her focus back on getting out of there. Especially as the goblins moved their 
gaze back to the five prisoners. She shuffled a little closer to her weapons, which had recently been 
placed on the ground so the goblin could help secure the children.
No one paid her any attention as there was a scuffle and the girl tried to run for it. Aneira seized 
her chance, grabbing her stuff and legging it back the way she'd come. As she did, she shouldered 
her quiver and notched an arrow to the string. The sounds of pursuit came to her as she rounded the 
edge of one of the houses. Using her turning momentum she spun to send the arrow through the 
throat of the nearest goblin. He gurgled deep green blood in response.
Without waiting to see how many followed her, she started running again, forcing her legs to 
pump up and down as fast as she could while keeping her balance.
As she reached the gate she'd talked to Gwain at she turned again, and another of her arrows 
went flying. This time she took a moment to check the scene. Another goblin down and only 
twenty-nine to go. But so far only a third of them were chasing her. The longer she elluded capture 
the more likely they would be to all pursue her and leave the village and the other five victims 
alone, so she turned and sprinted off again.
The goblins did not seem as used to running as she was, at least not flat out, and they soon fell 
behind. This made Aneira feel better, but she would not be able to keep it up either. As her pursuers 
trailed out of range of her bow she slowed a little, allowing herself to jog at a fast pace rather than 
sprint.
When the goblins caught up a little she turned and fired again, but this time her arrow only 
caught the edge of an arm and they all kept running at her. She frowned as she realised her knife 
was still with whoever had taken it.
Her breath came in ragged gasps as she ascended one of the many hills ahead of her. Right at the 
top she took another opportunity to turn and fire. One more fell to die, as another slowed and 
dropped back from the chasing pack. For her hastily made plan to work, this goblin would need to 
report to their boss and encourage the rest to join the chase. Hopefully, this horde's leader was proud 
and would take her escape to heart.
Either way, she could only run for so long. With no traps to aid her and nothing nearby to hide in, 
she did the only thing she could think of and ran for the massive fortress-like ruins she had seen the 
previous day.
At the top of each hill she turned and fired another arrow. Roughly half the time the missiles 
found their mark, but it was not enough. Her arrows were running out faster than her targets. As she 
climbed yet another hill her thighs protested at the strain and she stumbled over a loose rock.
She glanced behind to find the gap had closed again to no more than about fifteen metres and 
more goblins were racing in from behind that. The whole horde now chased her to the mountains.
Knowing she would want some arrows for emergencies, she stopped glancing behind her and 
turning around, so she could concentrate all her effort on reaching the ruins. None of them had fresh 
legs anymore, but as their leader joined them the horde seemed to take on a new lease of life. Soon 
she could hear their feet pounding behind her and they jeered at her between their own rapid 
breaths.
Arrow shafts started to fall around her, forcing her to weave a little and use up even more energy, 
and still they kept coming after her. As she reached another vantage point she stopped and wheeled 
around on the balls of her feet. She fired three arrows in rapid succession into the three nearest 
goblins.
At such close range her aim was good enough to kill two instantly and mortally wound the other. 
The rest hesitated. They wanted to catch her but goblins were more cowardly than they liked to 
make out. She'd killed over a third of their number now and still ran.
Their hesitation bought her some distance again and she continued the race for her life, now far 
enough ahead that she was out of their bow range once more. Despite her new advantage, thoughts 
of her own death tried to invade her mind. It took all her remaining willpower to keep slogging on 
and not give up.
She no longer looked back to see what might come. The horde leader could be heard 
encouraging the other goblins to speed up and get closer to her, but after a few minutes of this they 
didn't sound any nearer. Eventually the chief gave up and they contented themselves with staying 
the same distance behind.
Knowing their tactic was to wear her out, she concentrated on conserving her energy, using her 
arms to swing and aid her momentum, as well as controlling her breathing. Her tongue was like 
sandpaper in her mouth and she really wanted a drink, but she couldn't stop for that now.
Just as she thought she could not make her body go any further she looked up and noticed the 
ruins were a lot closer than they had been the day before. She had already run past the place she'd 
settled in for the night and covered at least half the distance between there and the ruins. On top of 
that, the sky was getting darker. Several gloomy-looking clouds had rolled in, and they helped make 
it feel like the evening and the blackness of night were coming soon.
Both these things filled her with enough hope to tuck her head back down, continue up the next 
slope and conquer the final hill, before heading down to the very skirt of the mountain and the main 
climb to the ruins up above her. As she started up the final slope, it soon became apparent the 
goblins were hesitating again and getting even farther behind.
Aneira glanced over her shoulder a few times before she realised they were bothered by the 
ruins. Their heads darted up to look at it before casting furtive glances at their own leader and then, 
if not watched, they lagged behind a little.
A laugh almost escaped her as she watched the strange switching behaviour where each goblin 
who slunk to the back of the group would find himself at the front again after the rest of the horde 
had repeated the process. Only their leader kept any kind of steady pace, and tried to encourage 
them on.
Whatever bothered them about the ruins must be serious if it stopped them from pursuing her as 
ruthlessly when their determination had already seen them run over ten miles. She hoped they felt 
like they couldn't show weakness to the village. No doubt they would drag her back there if 
captured and make a public example of her, all because she'd dared to stand up to them in front of 
the village chief.
She lifted her head and scanned the edges of the rock construction, looking for a way into the 
building. When she spotted a possible entrance, she put on a final sprint uphill to the finish. By the 
time she reached the top her thighs ached with the build of effort, and she felt like she might throw 
up, but she knew she could hardly slow down now.
The building offered her immediate protection from arrows, but the goblins were still coming, 
and she would need to find a very good hiding place for there to be any chance they would pass her 
by. Through the great, black stone archway she raced, and then along, glancing at any open 
doorways with long ago disintegrated doors.
There were several rooms to each side, but they all looked to be dead ends, and she had no 
choice but to flee farther into the expansive building, like a rat before a flood.
After a few more minutes of running she heard the sound of the goblins behind her. Their 
conversation as they entered through the arch was picked up by the acoustics and echoed around 
her. She strained her ears to make out what was said, but only caught the continued commands 
forcing them after her.
Her flight continued until she saw a large room up ahead through a doorway that had also started 
deteriorating. As she got closer she realised the floor had fallen through, and it forced her to slow.
When she reached the edge she looked down. Over five floors had fallen down to reveal a dank 
cave at the bottom. This building had not only been made out of the rock around it but carved down 
into it as well. It was huge, and the only way to continue was on a small ledge that ran all the way 
around the sides.
As she looked down again she gulped. If she didn't work her way around the room she would 
have to face the goblins and they were still close behind her. She could hear at least a small group of 
them coming up the long corridor. They were still a good distance away and had slowed their pace, 
but they were advancing on her and she couldn't let them get too near.
Taking a deep breath to try and calm herself down, she shuffled sideways along the edge, her 
back pressed up against the wall and her arms out, running along it, for balance. She held her bow 
in one hand and an arrow in the other, just in case she needed to deter her pursuers from getting too 
close.
She'd moved about three metres out onto the ledge when she noticed some movement on the 
other side of the room. The large arched exit into another great chamber stole her focus, as she saw 
the face of the largest scaly lizard she had ever encountered. As it came forward she noticed the 
wings and tail.
When she had been little her parents had told her tales of dragons, but she'd never seen one and 
had assumed they were a myth. Now her gaze locked with this one. Its eyes were a deep amber 
colour that seemed to suck her into them, and its scales were ebony black. She'd never seen 
anything so beautiful and terrifying at the same time.
For a moment neither of them moved, then all of a sudden it sucked in its breath and she watched 
as smoke started to billow from the dragon's nostrils.
“Oh, crapola,” she said, just as flames burst from its mouth and came towards her at speed. There 
was only time to cover her face with her hands and close her eyes before the flame ball engulfed 
her. Her jaw clenched against the pain and then all of a sudden the fire was gone, except it wasn't. 
Her clothes, bow, quiver and even a small part of the ledge she stood on were now alight.
She tried frantically to beat the flames out with her hands but it just resulted in her wobbling 
over the drop. As everything slowed around her, her arms hung in the air before falling to her sides, 
and she glanced once more at the dragon. Its eyes had never left her and she saw no mercy in them.
The sounds of the horde no longer came to her. All she could hear was the slow crackle of flames 
as they flickered over her blistering skin. She watched the flames crackling on her arm for a 
moment, mesmerised by the difference in speed of the world around her in comparison to normal.
Something twinkled out of the corner of her eye and she looked down towards it. The cave below 
her had water on the bottom, and she could see a small star reflected in it.
Water! Water puts out fire. She blinked and hesitated. There was no other way but to jump the 
five levels and hope the water was deep enough. As the pain grew worse she commanded her body 
to do just that. Nothing happened.
“Jump,” she cried out and finally she unfroze and flung herself over the edge. As she fell, the air 
whistling past her fanned the flames even fiercer and the pain of being burnt alive raged across 
every part of her touched by the lit clothes.
With a resounding splash she hit the water at the bottom and sunk into its icy embrace. The force 
stung her skin on top of the already painful burns and she dropped her bow in shock. Doing 
everything she could to ignore how much she hurt she swivelled herself around in the water, trying 
to find the surface and get some air into her lungs.
As she thrashed around she felt all the pain and coldness fade from her. Her limbs went heavy 
and her eyelids started to close. She only had time to think she hadn't wanted to go out this way 
before she lost consciousness and slipped into oblivion.
The Bringer of Judgement
A small feeling of unease crept over Cathal as he lay, trying to sleep away the evening. 
Something different was in his domain, something new. He lifted himself to his feet and stretched 
his spine out from the back of his neck right down to the tip of his tail. A few scales pulled as they 
caught momentarily on their neighbours.
Heading towards the intruder, he paced down the nearest broad flight of steps. He sniffed the air 
a little but couldn't make out any scent yet. Whoever it was, they were near the far entrance and 
didn't smell too strong. Not like the goblins and other foul creatures that sometimes strayed into his 
lair.
Once he reached the bottom of the first massive flight of steps he could sense the intruder even 
more. It was one lone person, moving towards him and at a fast pace, on the same level as the main 
hall. A grin spread across his face as he remembered what they were about to stumble across. 
Hopefully they'd be moving too fast to stop.
He slunk down until he was in the room opposite. When he realised that the intruder was a 
female, he hesitated. No woman had ever been a dragon slayer before. Only men came to try and 
hunt him, but it explained why the feeling had been different.
His eyes roved over her until he saw her bow. Regardless of her gender she was a hunter, and it 
left him with only one choice: to kill or be killed. He stepped forward and spurted out as much fire 
as he could manage in one breath. Satisfied it had done its job, he watched as she burnt, until she 
dove off.
As she plunged beyond sight into the lake, he felt her life force fading. A few more minutes and 
she would be dead. He lowered his head; it saddened him that so many of the humans met their end 
this way. There had never been any wish for dragons to go to war with men, but he wouldn't let 
them kill him just to soothe their egos.
Just as he turned to leave he caught the smell of goblins and noticed a group of them also near 
the entrance to his domain. After moving his bulk out of sight of the main hall he closed his eyes 
and focused his power to listen to them.
“Why'd we 'ave to be the ones goin' after her? We won't get to eat'er, the boss will when we've 
got'er back.”
“The boss'll let us eat some o' those others though. And I ain't gonna challenge him. Did you see 
Mugrat? The boss chopped 'im in'alf.”
“Don't tell me yer alright with gettin' in range o' that bow. She's skewered yer arm already. And 
there's that dragon. I don't wanna meet 'im.”
Cathal frowned. The woman he'd just toasted must have been running from the goblins and 
defending herself. With a speed that seemed surprising for his bulk he slunk off to go down to the 
lake, staying where the goblins wouldn't see him. He knew now that he should have trusted his gut 
and waited for a little longer before burning her.
He sniffed warily at the entrance to the lake's cave, but the goblins were still not at the opening. 
After crawling forward he slid into the watery depths, putting all his effort into pin-pointing her 
aura. The woman's body was already lying at the bottom, on top of the remains of the floor. If 
anyone else had found her it would already be too late, but he could still sense her spirit clinging to 
the body.
With one front claw he picked up her body and then he pushed up for the surface again. Within 
seconds he had her out on the lake edge and had silently emerged from the water as well. Knowing 
he had no time to get either of them to safety, he closed his eyes and concentrated all his effort on 
healing, first her lungs from the water damage, and then the burns that covered her body.
As soon as every hurt was repaired she started to grow stronger again. He picked her 
unconscious body up and left the exposed area. It had been a long time since he had used his power 
to save someone's life and it reminded him of how much he preferred it to killing.
Now that he'd healed her he didn't really know what to do with her. There was no way he wanted 
to take her up to his lair, especially given that he'd just almost killed her. He couldn't be confident 
that she wouldn't react by trying to kill him, but he couldn't just leave her anywhere with goblins 
looking for her. She might wake up as their prisoner, or not wake up at all.
After wandering his halls for several minutes he decided to place her in a small room out of the 
way in some of the more intact parts of the fortress. He could prowl nearby until she was awake and 
ensure no goblins found her, thereby fixing his mistake and making up for it, at least a little. As 
soon as she had regained her feet he could retreat to his watching place to stay out of all their 
affairs.
***
Several hours later Aneira woke up. She gasped in the fresh air, her mind still thinking she was 
underwater and drowning. Her eyes went wide as she tried to take in the light of the surroundings. A 
small torch was lit in the corner of the room. It made it light enough to see but little else.
Her clothes were still sodden, as was her pack, ruining all her food and rendering her tinder 
useless. All the burn marks remained on her clothes and she could smell the charred material, but 
her skin was flawless. Even a few of the scars she'd picked up on previous occasions were gone. 
Whatever, or whoever, had saved her had done a good job. She already knew she wasn't in any kind 
of heaven.
The room she woke up in was the same black stone as the rest of the fortress had been. That also 
meant the goblins would be about somewhere and, more than likely, still looking for her. She 
shivered.
No matter how long she sat there, her mind just couldn't cope with knowing she had been dying 
and then found herself alive. After prodding her own face and arms several times she realised she 
would have to accept she was alive and get moving. All her weapons were gone and she would need 
to search for some new ones, while staying away from both the horde and the dragon.
She got to her feet, wrung as much water out of her clothing and equipment as she could, 
grabbed the lit torch, and headed up one of the spiral staircases set into a tower. It was the sort of 
climb that would keep her out of sight and let her hear if there was anything nearby long before it 
might see her. It also appeared to be too narrow for the dragon, another thing in its favour.
An hour passed before she even heard anything nearby. Just as she came up to a corner in a 
corridor, the sound of someone shuffling along came to her ears. She crouched low and shielded her 
torch from view. Whoever it was, they were too close for her to run away in time. She would have 
to jump them and use their own weapons against them. Not an easy task, but she had no choice.
While she waited she kept her breathing calm and her head focused, but after several minutes 
nothing came out and the sounds started moving away from her again. She clenched her jaw and 
poked her head around the corner just in time to see two goblins head down a set of steps over fifty 
metres away.
The hallways must have amplified the noise of their movement and if that happened to them it 
would most definitely be happening to her as well. Not knowing what to do, she waited where she 
was for some time.
So far, she had walked through the ruins looking for a weapon, or something she could use as 
one, but this just kept her close to danger. Instead, she would be better off avoiding all goblins and 
finding another exit from this place. It was so large there had to be another way out. On top of that, 
she also needed food. She had some water left in a small flask, but it had probably been tainted by 
the lake water, and that had definitely not been clean.
With a new plan of action, she crept as silently as she could the same way the goblins had gone, 
but went up instead of down.
More time passed as she snuck around, being even more careful to keep quiet than before. She 
walked along to the other side of the fortress, finding it much brighter. There were many windows 
set into the walls, and another day had dawned, albeit a rather wet and dreary one, but it still meant 
she could put out her torch and avoid drawing extra attention to herself.
She put her hands out of a window and let the pouring rain fill them for her to drink. It took a 
long time for her to collect enough to even moisten her mouth and throat, but it was a start. She also 
noticed she was a good deal farther up than the main entrance. Whoever had saved her life and 
moved her had brought her up several floors, and she had climbed three more herself since.
She had just slurped up her fourth palm full of water when a sound behind her made her spin on 
the spot. Two goblins rushed her.
With lightning-fast reactions, she ducked. Both blades swung over her head and one goblin's 
momentum carried him right over her and towards the window ledge. She grabbed his legs and 
lifted.
“Aaaarggh!” he cried while he plummeted towards the rocks many stories below. She didn't wait 
to find out if it killed him as her second foe tried to slice her open again. This time she rolled out of 
the way and scrambled to her feet. His sword clanged as it struck the rock where she had been. The 
force sent a shock-wave up the goblin's arm.
Seizing her chance, she kicked him in the side with all the force she could muster. He went 
sprawling, leaving his sword behind. Both scrabbled to get to it before the other, but she was the 
faster of the two. As soon as her fingers were wrapped around its hilt she swung it backwards and 
cut off three of the goblin's fingers. He howled and rocked back onto his knees. She didn't hesitate 
to run the foul creature through.
Just in case others had heard the commotion, she left the room and went straight up the next set 
of steps she saw. Once she'd reached the next floor she tucked herself out of the way to clean the 
blade she'd gained. It wasn't a design she was used to, but at least she was no longer unarmed. After 
cleaning the sword with a tatter of cloth that was already partially hanging off her singed trousers, 
she set off again.
Now she knew how high she was, she resolved to try and go back down the next staircase and 
get to a level that was more likely to have an exit. Unfortunately, no sooner had she walked down 
the first three steps than she heard the sound of someone coming up. She had nowhere else to go 
except farther up the same staircase and onto the floor above that.
“Crapola,” she muttered and carried on slinking away down yet another corridor. At this level 
she found herself forced back towards the mountain. The outside wall, the floors and the roof above 
had all been ripped apart by weather and time, and there was no telling how unstable the rock under 
her feet had become. Cracks ran through a lot of it and conjured up the image of the first main hall 
she had come across. She shuddered.
Either the number of goblins had increased or they were closing in on her position, because she 
had only been walking for another fifteen minutes when she heard more sounds ahead of her. She 
tucked into the stairwell of yet another twisting tower and peeked around the edge to see how many 
approached her.
When four goblins with bows wandered around the corner she pulled back. Four was two too 
many for her to want to attempt killing, especially when their ranged weapons gave them even more 
of an advantage. She peered downwards but couldn't see anything beyond the first few steps. There 
was no light of any kind getting in, and she suspected the tower had caved in somewhere because 
the stairwell above her was reasonably bright.
Again, she was forced to go up when she wanted to go down. So far none of the patrolling horde 
seemed to have noticed her but, over the next hour or more, she found herself doubling back and 
being forced onto one route, always up and always towards the central section of the building.
It dawned on Aneira that the dragon must be around somewhere and, if anywhere, it was likely to 
be at the top, and probably somewhere dark. Her next thought made her want to kick herself, but 
she resisted while heading up some more steps.
The goblins had known the dragon was here. As she had run closer to the ruins the night before, 
they had all hung back. Now she knew what they had been afraid of. And given how she was being 
driven always up and towards the darker parts of the abandoned fortress, she bet they knew exactly 
where it lived, too.
So far she'd killed almost fifteen of the thirty-odd horde, and she knew it would make the 
remaining ones wary of her. Instead, they were getting the dragon to do their dirty work. They were 
going round in numbers too big for her to fight and making sure she had to keep retreating.
At first this made her so cross she considered hurling herself back downwards onto the four 
goblins behind her, but she knew anger was never a good decision maker. With a frown fixed on her 
face she went out onto the next landing.
There were few rooms on this floor that were still intact, and she had to head towards the 
mountain again. As she did she noticed that it got darker and the walls grew rougher. These had 
been carved out of the rock rather than made with stone that had been quarried out.
She could only see one set of steps other than the ones she'd left behind, and she dashed over to 
them. As she heard sounds of more goblins ascending from below she gritted her teeth and rushed 
upwards.
Only one option remained for her and, with her mind made up to take it, she kept going until she 
reached the top. She stifled a gasp as she emerged in a massive room, lit with torches as if she was 
expected. At the end of it, right in the heart of the mountain, was a large set of stairs that went up so 
high they towered above her and she couldn't see what was on the new level.
Knowing her pursuers would not be far behind her she started to scramble up them. Her eyes 
remained fixed ahead of her now. The dragon would be up here somewhere, and there was no way 
to tell where until he showed himself. She had a feeling his scales would blend in with the uneven 
stone, especially as the flickering light of the torches made it look like it was dragon scales itself.
A part of her wondered if this fortress had been made for the dragon but she dismissed the idea. 
Her parents had only ever told her that humans were killed by or killed dragons, and this place had 
been made by men.
As she reached the top of the massive stairway she realised it wasn't the end of the fortress by 
far. More archways led off in several different directions, and she took the most major, guessing the 
dragon had picked the most important place in the whole building to reside in.
After going through the arch she saw another set of stairs leading to a platform, and from that 
even more steps to both the left and the right, as well as some kind of open area set even further 
back. Scattered on the floor were dried dragon scales that had been shed from the creature's skin. 
Now she was in the dragon's domain.
Just in case it snuck up on her, she held the curved sword out ahead of her and slowed her pace 
again. Her eyes never stayed still but swept from side to side trying to pierce the shadows and check 
for any movement nearby.
Suddenly it was there at the end of the room. She took a few steps forward as it came towards 
her and lowered her blade to try and appear non-threatening. Their eyes met and she kept her sight 
fixed on its face, hoping to read any sudden movements there.
With no warning, it flicked its tail out and swept her up against the wall. She dropped her 
weapon and the dragon sent the sword flying off the platform with one of its front claws. She 
listened as it clattered down and down until it was out of earshot, having no idea what else to do but 
wait for the dragon to make its next move.
“I let you go once. Why do you disturb me again?”
Her mouth fell open as she heard the dragon's voice. It took her a moment to gather her wits 
about her and find her tongue.
“The goblins have given me no option. I am weaponless, my bow and arrows at the bottom of 
the lake. They have cut me off from every exit and have driven me up and up. I cannot kill all of 
them or you,” she said, aware that he could crush her with the tail that still pinned her bodily to the 
wall.
“You run from them, instead of fighting?”
“I do. A small number of them I can pick off one by , but there are too many. I am constantly 
forced to retreat. They will eventually kill me; I cannot keep my guard up forever. They will slit my 
throat while I sleep or put a knife in my back. And then eat me.”
“I will do no less.”
“I know.”
“So why have you expended the energy to come all the way up here?”
“To look death in the face.”
Aneira expected the end to come swiftly after this comment, but it didn't. Instead, the muscles in 
his tail relaxed and he swept it behind him again, leaving her standing and capable of movement. 
The shock must have been evident all over her face as she started to back up, because he didn't 
follow her but copied her movements, retreating backwards.
Their eyes remained fixed on each other until she noticed his gaze flick to her right. She rotated 
just in time to see four goblins fire arrows in her direction. She dived to the ground, letting them fly 
over her head and clatter into the wall. As they launched more of the projectiles at her, she spun to 
grab three off the floor and then dived behind a pillar.
With her heart already pounding in her chest, she tried to pinpoint the location of the goblins and 
figure out how to get closer whilst staying under cover. The dragon was nowhere to be seen. She 
saw a small ledge running around the back of one of the main stairways and figured it would go 
around the masonry to the back of the goblins' position.
Timing her movement to coincide with the goblins reloading, she sprinted across the gap and 
threw one of their arrows back as if it was a javelin. It caught one on the arm and injured it, but 
that's all she had time to see before she was cowering behind another rock. Wasting no time, she 
scurried to the ledge and started walking along it, one arrow in each hand. As she got to the end she 
gingerly turned her body around to face the wall and peeked around the corner.
One of the archers lay on its back, its body contorted strangely. She watched, mesmerised, as it 
died. Without waiting for the goblins to notice her, she launched another arrow at the nearest one 
and tucked back behind the stone. She heard a gargle as the second goblin joined the first in its 
death throes.
She scurried back along the ledge and to the edge of the steps. A shiver ran down her spine as she 
realised the arrow heads must have been poisoned. She had not thrown either with enough force to 
kill.
Both remaining goblins must have made her position as they rushed at her, yelling, from both 
sides. Thankfully the narrowness of the ledge slowed one down, enabling her to tackle the first and 
drive her remaining arrow right through its heart.
Pulling the bow from its hand and another arrow from its quiver, she turned and shot the final 
one just as he came around the corner. Then she collapsed into a sitting heap, her legs completely 
jelly-like. After a few moments to get her breath back and digest what she had just achieved, she 
went around the three corpses that hadn't fallen off the platform and collected all their remaining 
arrows into a quiver.
The goblin bow was smaller than she liked, but having it in her hand made her feel like herself 
again. Just as she was about to walk off, the dragon came back out from the shadows again.
“That was impressive.”
“Thank you,” she said and bobbed her head out of respect. It seemed this dragon was going to let 
her live.
“What's your name?”
“Aneira, my lord.”
“Do you know what your name means?”
“No, my lord, I don't.” His question took her by surprise but she had noticed the look of delight 
in his eye when she'd called him lord. He obviously appreciated the respect, and if it kept her alive 
it worked for her.
“Why are the goblins chasing you?”
“I was in a village, south-east of here, and it seems they have, or hopefully had, some agreement 
with the village. In return for regular sacrifices the goblins didn't decimate the entire village. I 
wanted to help them, as they helped me, so I tried to get an idea of their numbers and strength, but 
they caught me snooping around and tried to include me in the sacrifice. I killed as many as I could 
and fled to try and kill more another day.”
“So you came here?”
“Had I known you were here, my lord, I would not have.”
“Everyone knows I reside her.”
“I'm sorry, my lord, I did not. I do not live nearby and no one told me. I thought all dragons were 
dead and a thing of the past.” Her heart raced in her chest as she tried to figure out where his 
questions were leading. Until today she'd not even realised dragons still lived, let alone talked.
“Where are you from?”
“Originally, I do not know. My people have always wandered the mountains far south of here. I 
am looking for them.”
“You are alone?”
“Yes, my people are gone. I don't know where. I search for them, but it's been eight years. There 
is little hope that I'll find them again.”
“How did you lose them?”
“I can hardly remember exactly what happened. One day my mother woke me up and made me 
run with her to a cave near the place we had camped. She told me to stay there until she returned. I 
waited for hours but no one ever came back.”
“They left you there?”
“Not deliberately, my lord; at least, I don't think it was deliberate. When I finally ventured out of 
the cave and went to the site of our camp, there was blood and a pile of burning bodies. Not enough 
to account for all my people, but many. I followed the rut of some wheels in the mud for several 
days, but after a few days of dry weather I lost the trail. I've been searching ever since.”
“You do not settle anywhere?”
“No, my lord, nowhere has felt like home, like I belong.”
For a while neither of them spoke, and she fidgeted slightly. Not knowing what he was thinking 
or planning to do kept her on edge.
“There is a way they don't know about. Come, follow me and I will show you,” the dragon said 
and moved off to one side. With a raised eyebrow she did as he asked, letting the shadows hide both 
of them from sight. When they'd gone around a corner he paused for a moment, and a small glow 
started to emanate from his eyes, lighting the pathway for them both. She grinned. Having a dragon 
for an ally was proving useful, even if it might only be a temporary alliance.
The passage they were in twisted and turned before he darted off to the left, down a tunnel she 
hadn't noticed. At the top of a staircase carved into the rock he stopped and moved to the side.
“Go down there. Keep going east until you're led out onto a hillside, and continue wandering. I 
hope one day you find somewhere you belong.”
“Thank you, my lord.”
“I will deal with the goblins. It's been a while since I ate.”
Before she could respond to his statement, he had turned and lumbered off into the darkness. She 
looked back at the black tunnel.
“Ummmm.”
Suddenly the dragon snorted fire from somewhere behind her and a torch on the wall lit up. He 
then continued walking away. With an extra spring in her step, she jogged up and grabbed the light 
from the wall.
As she turned back to go down and out of the ruins, she realised she never found out if the 
dragon had a name, or even said goodbye. It made her pause and look back up the way he'd led her 
but he was long gone and she didn't know what his patience would be like if she disturbed him for a 
third time.
Instead, she took the first step down and continued down for some time, winding around very 
slowly until she had lost all sense of direction. When she finally reached the bottom her legs ached 
and she yawned with tiredness. She found herself in another room, not unlike all the ones she'd 
passed through in the earlier hours. She suspected she was lower than the entrance level, however.
Up ahead there was a single archway which led to a long corridor. The torchlight flickered off 
the walls, and now she wasn't being chased by anything she took a moment to appreciate the beauty. 
This whole place had been designed to work with the light of flames and stars instead of sunlight, 
and it sparkled and gleamed as if part of its own dance that never ended while someone was there to 
see it.
If she had a home, she hoped that it would be something like this; where everything had been 
planned and night time was as beautiful as day, to be enjoyed, not hidden from. She'd seen too many 
villages where everyone hid inside their houses as soon as the sun went down. That luxury had 
never been one she had, and she'd come to appreciate being forced to walk during the night. The 
things she had seen had slowly changed her opinion of it. The moon and stars reflected back on a 
clear, still lake were breathtaking.
When she reached the end of the corridor she ground to a halt. Ahead of her was a chasm. At 
some point the earth had moved and opened up a deep rent in the rock. The way out was on the 
other side. A bridge had been made across it at some point but, just like everything else in this 
place, time and weather had got to it, and now it was gone, somewhere at the bottom of the gap it 
had straddled.
She sighed. This would be a problem. After placing the torch somewhere safe she tried to see if 
she could find another way across, or down and then up the other side. There was nothing.
Realising how tired she was she sat down and decided to take a break. It had been over two days 
since she had initially left the village, and apart from a brief period almost dead, she had been on 
the go since then.
Tackling those stairs and finding another way out could wait. The other plus to that would 
hopefully be the lack of the goblins. That dragon could kill pretty quickly.
***
As the smell of the nearest goblins hit Cathal, he changed direction. He'd told Aneira they would 
be dealt with and there was no time like the present. Any creatures that had subjected humans to the 
atrocities she'd mentioned deserved to be wiped from existence, and it had been a while since he'd 
eaten.
The only thing he'd have to be careful about was their arrows. The goblins had shot poisoned 
ones at the poor woman several times, and poisons made him feel rough for several hours. In theory, 
if enough of it made its way to his blood stream it might even kill him, although he'd never had 
more than one dose at any point.
An hour later he'd barbecued over thirty of them and eaten more than he should in one go. It 
surprised him that Aneira had thought she could take on so many of them all by herself, although 
her short battle against the four he'd seen had been impressive; she was very resourceful.
While he was breathing fire on another set of unwary goblins, from a hole in the floor above 
them, he reached out with his mind to see what he could still sense in his domain. Instantly he felt 
her; she was making her way east far below him. He also felt the presence of another sixty or so 
goblins, including a much stronger one back near the large entrance where he'd first seen her.
He picked up the pace and headed to the leader. There were a lot more in the horde than she had 
given indication of. Reinforcements of some kind must have arrived, so there were still too many 
for the village to defeat alone. The last time he had flown nearby there had only been about twenty 
strong males, and he doubted many of them knew how to fight.
When he got near to the strongest life force he moved with more care. There was a mass of them 
hiding in the archway and he could smell the smoke of a fire they must have set. As soon as he 
started on this bunch they would more than likely scatter.
Cathal headed up until he was near an open roof and flew out. It was day, so they would 
probably see him coming, but this would ensure they ran inside, under cover, allowing him to finish 
them off at his leisure.
He wheeled upwards as quietly as he could, folded his wings and plummeted down towards 
them. About two hundred metres high, he was spotted and the goblins started running. He exhaled, 
setting many of them alight and causing the rest to run inside, just as he'd hoped. As he pulled up, 
he heard the twang of bowstrings. He banked left but wasn't quick enough. An arrow caught him 
underneath one of his scales on his underside.
With a snarl he plunged again, and more flames spread across and through the entrance. More 
shrieks and yelps of pain caught his ears and he felt their life forces fade. A few still remained 
unharmed but they were running farther into the fortress. They would be easy to mop up now.
 As soon as he landed he pulled the arrow out from where it had lodged. The wound bled a small 
amount but it would do him no long-term harm. Just in case, he sniffed the arrow head. The faint 
smell of Essence of Murdew. Not the first time he'd been poisoned with it. He would have a sore 
head for a while but would be fine. He didn't want to get hit with it again, however. It was not 
something he'd built up much of a resistance to.
Just as he expected, the leader had run and left his minions to fend for themselves, but he'd fled 
farther in and Cathal could sense him trying to work his way around the same ledge he'd first seen 
her on. He chuckled and snorted some more flames on a goblin he'd spotted out of the corner of his 
eye.
Several minutes later he came up on the great hall from the other side. This time he didn't 
hesitate and filled the place with fire. He gave it a few lungfulls, rather than only one, and then 
waited as the horde leader fell into the lake. This time there would be no rescue.
An hour later he had mopped up most of the other goblins. One or two remained, dotted here and 
there, but several had turned on each other while he had been making his rounds, and there were so 
few left they would not be able to threaten the village any longer.
If any came near him he would deal with them, but he had wandered the place long enough. Both 
his head and his stomach hurt, one from poison and the other from indigestion.
As he finished checking the final number of living goblins, he noticed Aneira was still beneath 
him, in the bottom level of the great fortress, and not moving. He stopped and waited to see if she 
moved after a few minutes but she didn't. This woman was proving to be problematic.
Feeling a little irritated by all these continued presences in his home he trudged back up to the 
top of the main section and went to the tunnel that led down to her. By the time he reached her level 
she was still there and as far as he could tell she hadn't moved an inch, nor was there any light 
source coming from up ahead. She was in the pitch black.
“You are still here,” he said as he came up beside her. She sat on the ground with her knees up 
under her chin, looking a bit like a small child who was bored. As soon as she turned her head and 
saw him she leapt to her feet and did an awkward curtsey.
“Sorry, my lord. I was about to leave but I couldn't find a way to cross, and then my light went 
out.”
“Do you not carry anything with you to light your way?” It was all he could do to keep his anger 
out of his voice. Why were women so ill-prepared?
“I do, but it got rather wet when I took a swim in your lake.”
“Ah.” He could have hit himself. That was his fault. As he looked out over the chasm he realised 
she was right. The bridge that had been there five days ago had gone. It must have fallen while he 
was out hunting somewhere. If it had given way while he was there the noise would have reached 
his ears. There was no way she could have crossed.
For a moment he considered leading her back up and out another way but as he looked back at 
her he knew that would be unkind. From her aura he could tell she was already exhausted and it was 
not a short journey back to the village, without having to go right to the top of the fortress just to 
come down again.
“Climb up on my back, I will fly you over,” he said, his words surprising himself.
“My lord? Ride a dragon? Me?”
He chuckled at her wide eyes. After a moment she recovered from her shock and very gently 
climbed up his folded leg onto the scales of his back. The feeling of her soft padded feet tickled him 
a little but he ignored it. As soon as she was settled with one leg either side of his back ridge and 
holding on with both hands, he spread his wings and leapt off the ledge.
Within moments he was on the other side and she slid off his back onto the floor.
“Wow, thank you. That was...” her voice trailed off and she shook her head. It made him grin.
“You should go first. Some of these passages are a tight fit and I block all light getting through 
them. You would be left to stumble behind in the dark.”
She nodded her acknowledgement of his words and started walking down the inclined pathway. 
The farther they went, the rougher the walls and floor grew, until the tunnel was no longer 
manmade, but natural.
“Did you... Was it you who healed me and moved me somewhere safer?” she said, breaking their 
silence.
“Yes.”
“Thank you.”
“You're welcome, but I did cause you the damage that I fixed. I thought you were here to try and 
kill me.”
“I didn't even know dragons were real, let alone that one still existed.”
“I think I might be the last.”
“Just like I'm the last of my people.”
“Yes.” Despite the sadness of this sentiment, he smiled. There was something about this woman 
he liked.
His thoughts were suddenly distracted by the tunnel narrowing and he sucked in his stomach to 
wriggle through the gap. They lapsed into silence again but this time it didn't feel uncomfortable. It 
was the silence of companions who had said everything they needed for the time being and could 
just 'be' together.
Light soon shone up ahead and he walked out into the day with her. They were just past the foot 
of the mountains and a mile or so from the black stone giant they had been in moments before. The 
day was already waning and it would be dark before she got to the village.
“I have dealt with the majority of the goblin horde, over seventy of them dead.”
“That many? I was only followed in by about twenty. I'd already killed over ten!” she said and 
raised her eyebrows.
“That would explain why you thought you could save the village. I can believe you would have 
challenged thirty, but not over a hundred.”
“No, I'd have run and never looked back had I known that many lingered here. No wonder the 
village could not save themselves.”
“I think there are only about ten more, but most of them were lost alone or in pairs in my 
fortress. I will eat them when I can stomach some more.” His statement made her giggle.
“Thank you, for all your help. I will let the village know what you have done for them.”
“No! You must promise not to mention me to the village, or ever let anyone know of this 
entrance to my domain.” He snapped his response and regretted it straight away. She had meant no 
harm. “Most humans see me as a beast and try to have me killed. I just wish to live the rest of my 
life in peace.”
“I understand... I won't tell them.”
“Thank you.” He nodded his head at her and turned to go.
“What do I tell them? They will want to know how they are safe.”
“Tell them you killed the thirty that chased you. Had I not interfered you might have managed 
that much.”
“Well then, good bye.” She smiled, waved and started walking. He watched her for a moment 
before retreating from the daylight back into his lair.
As he reached the room he normally slept in he expected to feel relieved that everything was 
back to normal in his part of the world, but he felt like there was a hole, like something was 
missing. Despite that, he settled his sore head down on his front legs and closed his eyes.
Home is Where the Heart is
Aneira's feet hurt. She'd been on the go with little rest for over two days and there was still more 
to do. The village was another mile away and night had already fallen. Her thoughts had mostly 
been on the dragon though. She realised she still didn't even know if he had a name.
If she didn't have the burns on her clothes to prove it, she would have wondered if the last few 
days had actually been a dream. Meeting a dragon was one of the most epic things that had ever 
happened to her, and she had just promised never to tell anyone. It made her feel even more alone. 
Not only was she the only one of her people left but she couldn't even tell anyone the most 
important thing that had ever happened to her.
When she reached the outskirts of the settlement she stopped for a moment. Everything was shut 
up again, and she wasn't sure where to go to let them know they were free from the goblins. She 
walked to the well in the centre and stood there for a moment. As she pivoted around she noticed a 
light spilling under the edge of the tavern's door.
If she could have picked anywhere, the tavern would have been her choice, so she ran up and 
knocked. A minute later Merrion opened the door to her.
“Aneira! We didn't expect to ever see you again, no, we didn't.”
“Well, I'm back and the goblins are gone.”
“Gone? As in not comin' back?”
“As in dead. There might be one or two roaming around but the horde and its leader are dead.” 
She smiled as his mouth fell open. Suddenly his wife appeared behind him and nudged him aside to 
get a look at her.
“Come in outta that cold night air.” She flapped like a mother hen and ushered Aneira into the 
warm room. No one else was there, but it was already late enough that they might have just gone to 
their homes a little early.
“I'll let the chief know. He'll want to speak to you 'bout it, I'm sure.” Merrion walked out the 
door and closed it behind him, leaving her standing awkwardly in the middle of the room.
“You liked my pie, didn't you, young'un?”
She nodded enthusiastically, hoping this meant she was about to get fed.
“Well sit yourself down then, you're making the place look untidy.”
Two minutes later she was sat at the same table as three days earlier, eating some more pie, mash 
and veg, covered in steaming gravy.
Before she could finish, Merrion returned with the village's chief. The slightly chubby man came 
and sat down in front of her.
“Is it true?” She nodded and carried on shovelling her mouth full of food. “You must be a pretty 
fine warrior?”
She still didn't answer but shrugged. No part of her really wanted to come out and say the lie the 
dragon had asked her to. While she continued eating the chief looked her over, and by the time she 
had finished her food she felt like she wanted to crawl out of her own skin and hide.
“How old are you, Aneira?”
“I don't know, but I think around eighteen. I'm not sure exactly. I can't remember when my 
birthday is.”
“Have you thought o' settlin' down somewhere? O' course you have, that's a dumb question, ain't 
it? I think you should stick 'round here, Aneira. You're old enough t'be some man's wife, and you've 
got lots t'recommend you.”
Somehow, she wasn't sure this was a good thing, but the chief had a look in his eyes that made 
her keep quiet.
“Now, I'd best go tell everyone the good news, especially those five young'uns who are waitin' to 
be sacrificed. Thanks to you they can go back 'ome tonight.”
She smiled as he got up and left, but it was only out of politeness. As soon as the door was shut 
Heulwen came over to her and patted her hand.
“How 'bout we get you into somethin' a little less tatty? The chief has his eye on you and I don't 
think a girl like you could make a better match. He's one fine man.”
Before she could protest to these ideas the woman had rushed off up the stairs. Her stomach 
turned at the thought of marrying someone like their chief. For starters, he was a good bit older than 
her, and he just wasn't the sort of man she'd ever dreamt of marrying. Not that she'd really ever 
dreamt of marrying anyone, but if she had, it wouldn't have been him.
She knew she had to get out of there as quickly as possible.
“Merrion. Could I have some more pie please?” she said as she pushed the plate towards him and 
gave him her biggest smile.
“O' course you can.”
As soon as he'd left the room she got up, grabbed all her stuff and bolted out of the door. Without 
looking back, she ran into the night, up towards the mountains, and didn't slow down until she was 
over a mile away.
“That was a close thing,” she said out into the night and walked onwards.
As dawn was breaking she saw a rabbit up ahead. Like lightning she notched an arrow to her 
bow and very little time later the animal was knocked onto its side, the same arrow right through its 
skull.
As she fetched it, she felt the first few patters of rain, and it wasn't long before the heavens 
opened. Within minutes she was drenched and could think of only one place to stay dry. She jogged 
towards the main entrance of the ruined fortress and ducked under the first archway. Already there 
were the remains of a fire, and her tinder had dried out enough since her swim in the lake that she 
managed to get a spark.
With a small blaze going she prepared her rabbit to cook. Even if she didn't eat it just yet, it 
would keep better cooked than raw.
She'd just suspended the carcass over the flames and sat down with her back against a dry wall 
when she felt her eyelids droop. After two nights of no sleep she was powerless to stop herself 
drifting off.
***
Cathal sniffed as he woke up. Someone had lit a fire. He closed his eyes again and searched for 
the culprit with his mind. Suddenly his eyes snapped open. Aneira! He got to his feet and ran down 
towards her as fast as he could, not slowing until he was just about to come across her.
When he walked into the room she occupied he noticed she was drifting off. She still seemed just 
as tired as she had when she'd left to go to the village, and he found he had very mixed feelings over 
her being there. He hoped nothing had happened to force her to resume wandering, but he was glad 
she'd stopped by again.
“That smells good,” he said. He watched her jolt out of her doze and swivel to face him. She 
visibly relaxed when she noticed it was him.
“I'm sorry, my lord. I didn't think me and my little fire would bother you all the way out here. I 
only came in to escape the rain.”
“You didn't think the village a safer option?”
“No, my lord. They wanted to marry me off to their greatest warrior. I think it had something to 
do with them thinking I killed a bunch of goblins, and that being good for strong children.”
“You said no?”
“I wasn't sure I was going to get the option to say no. I more, snuck off to avoid my fate.”
He laughed at the face she pulled while she grinned and fidgeted a little under his gaze.
“So you chose here.”
“I'm sorry, my lord. I can go. I really didn't mean to disturb you.”
“No. Stay. I know it's my home... well, it's not really a home, more of a ruin, but you're welcome 
to keep dry in it. Eat and get some rest. You didn't sleep last night. I'll keep a watch.”
“Thank you. I am tired, very tired.”
He curled up, blocking the entrance and ensuring the light of her fire wouldn't attract any 
unwelcome visitors. She finished cooking, and even offered him some of her meal, but he declined. 
The goblins he'd consumed earlier had more than filled him up, although they weren't as wholesome 
as the rabbit she'd got on a spit.
Many hours later she woke up again. He'd had to rescue her meat for her and stop it burning to a 
crisp, but even then he'd not had the heart to wake her.
As she yawned and stretched he also got up and paced to and fro for a moment to ease his 
stiffened limbs.
“Thank you yet again, my lord. I've not slept that well in months.”
“You're welcome, but please, my name is Cathal.”
“Cathal, I like that. It sounds like a good name for a dragon.”
“Perhaps, but Aneira would be a good name for a dragon, I think, too.”
“Really? I'm not sure if it's noble enough.”
He almost chuckled aloud at the delight in her face, despite her words.
“I asked you if you knew what your name meant when you told it to me. I do know what it 
means, and I knew then. It means golden. And dragons, well... we have a sort of weakness for gold. 
As such, I have an offer for you.”
“An offer? For me?”
“Yes. You know I healed you but, as a dragon, I can do many other wonderful things, including 
give another animal or creature, or human, the gift of becoming like me.”
“I don't understand.”
“If you wish, I can turn you into a dragon and you can stay here, with me, forever?”
“Really? I could have a home?”
“If you want, yes.”
Tears sprang to her eyes and she choked up, unable to reply to him. He wasn't sure whether this 
meant yes or no, so he sat and waited for her to calm herself down again.
“Do you want to stay?” he asked when he could wait no longer.
She nodded her head vigorously. “Yes, please. I'd love to stay with you here.”
“I know it's not much; most of it's a ruin.”
“It's amazing, and it's perfect, and then neither of us would be alone anymore.”
“No, and neither of us would be the last of our kind.”
~
Thank you for reading the first tale of Ethanar, Wandering to Belong. If you enjoyed this story 
and would like to read more you can find the second tale of Ethanar, Innocent Hearts, here. If you 
would like to view the full list of Ethanar tales in the order they should be read, the order they were 
published, or the order they occur chronologically, you can find them here. If you would like to 
subscribe to the new release email to be notified when the next tale of Ethanar is ready you can do 
so here. For a complete list of all works by the author, separated by genre, please continue. If you 
have enjoyed the book you just read and would like to let the author know you can email her via 
books@jessmountifield.co.uk or alternatively leave a review at your place of purchase.
Books by Jess Mountifield
Already published
Historical Adventure:
With Proud Humility (#1 in the Hearts of the Seas series)
Chains of Freedom (#4 in the Hearts of the Seas series)
Fantasy (Tales of Ethanar):
Wandering to Belong (Tale 1)
Innocent Hearts (Tale 2 & 3)
For Such a Time as This (Tale 4)
A Fire's Sacrifice (Tale 5)
The Hope of Winter (A short story in the anthology 'Flights of Fantasy' - Tale 6.05)
Sci-Fi:
Sherdan's Prophecy (#1 in the Sherdan series)
Sherdan's Legacy (#2 in the Sherdan series)
Sherdan's Country (#3 in the Sherdan series)
Sherdan's Road (A short story in the anthology 'The End of the Road')
The Slave Who'd Never Been Kissed (A novella in the anthology 'The Kiss')
Find Purchase links here
Coming soon
Historical Adventure:
Victorious Ruin (#2 in the Hearts of the Seas series)
Fantasy (Tales of Ethanar):
The Fire of Winter (#1 in the Winter series, Tale 6.1)
The Tales of Ethanar anthology - containing:
The Tales of Ethanar 1-6.05
A Brief History of Ethanar
Maps of Ethanar
A Note on Dragons
A Note on the Humanoid Races of Ethanar
Fantasy (other):
Angel of the Sands
Books under Amelia Price
Already published
The Hundred Year Wait (#1 in the Mycroft Holmes Adventures)
The Boy Next Door (A short story in the anthology 'The Bitten')
The Unexpected Coincidence (#2 in the Mycroft Holmes Adventures)
The Invisible Amateur (#3 in the Mycroft Holmes Adventures)
Coming soon
The Female Charm (#4 in the Mycroft Holmes Adventures)
About the Author
Jess was born in the quaint village of Woodbridge in the UK, has spent some of her childhood in 
the States and now resides in the beautiful Roman city of Bath. She lives with her husband, Phil, 
and her very dapsy cat, Pleaides.
During her still relatively short life Jess has displayed an innate curiosity for learning new things 
and has therefore studied many subjects, from maths and the sciences, to history and drama. Jess 
now works full time as a writer, incorporating many of the subjects she has an interest in within her 
plots and characters.
When she's not working she can often be found with friends, enjoying a vast array of films, ice 
skating or trekking all over the English countryside.
You can find out more about the author and her upcoming projects by following her on twitter or 
her fanpage on facebook or at her blog www.jessmountifield.co.uk <|endoftext|>
