
EDEN’S LAST HERO
EDEN: BOOK #1: EPISODE 1
LEIGH BARKER
Copyright 2012 Leigh Barker 
Published by Leigh Barker at Smashwords
Smashwords Edition License Notes
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only and may not 
be re-sold or given away to other people.  If you would like to share 
this book with others, please purchase an additional copy for each 
recipient.  If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was 
not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to 
Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own 
copy.  Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.
ISBN: 9781005790080
INSTRUCTIONS: 
CAN OF WORMS — OPENING OF
The archangel Michael and the Holy Ghost sat on opposite sides of the 
polished wooden table and tried to remain civil, even though the desire 
to scream abuse hung over the huge table like a storm cloud at a 
picnic.
‘Sometimes I wish we hadn’t jumped right in and exiled Lucifer to 
the pit,’ the Ghost said, with more than a hint of accusation. ‘Then we 
wouldn’t be having this discussion.’
‘No,’ Michael said, ‘we would be having a much shorter discussion. 
In the cells, waiting to be executed.’
The Ghost nodded reluctantly. ‘True, I suppose.’ He sighed a rattly 
sigh.
Michael ran his hand over his chin and wondered what had 
possessed him to shave off his beard. He’d had it for years, and it 
was… well, comforting. He was the Supreme Commander of Eden’s 
Guardians, and a beard had a certain gravitas and gave the impression 
that he was steady and wise. Except when it got clogged with food, 
then less so, but that was an infrequent event these days. Particularly 
since the beard was now—
‘As I was saying,’ the Ghost said sharply, cutting across Michael’s 
meanderings. ‘If we hadn’t been so quick to incarcerate Lucifer, then 
we could have negotiated. You know that.’
Michael didn’t know that. He stood up slowly and walked to the 
window overlooking the gardens and watched Gabriel tending the 
roses and stopping to stretch his back. He watched his most effective 
killer snip the roses with gentle care. He felt old, his bones ached, and 
he was sure he was starting to lose his hair. That would be a disaster. 
He ran his hand through his shoulder-length grey hair and tutted 
quietly as strands drifted away in the shafts of golden sunlight. It 
wasn’t surprising that he was losing it, what with Lucifer trying to start 
a revolution. Then the bickering over what to do with him. And finally 
the screaming and shouting as the Guardians tossed him into the Pit of 
Endless Suffering. Ah, he should come to stay with my mother-in-law, 
Michael thought.
He turned and leaned back against the windowsill. True, he was no 
longer a young man, but he was still striking, standing six foot four 
and two-hundred and ten pounds. He used to be in better condition, but 
then he’d been a warrior, while now he was just a politician. He 
missed those days, when you knew who you were fighting and why.
‘Lucifer was a far greater threat than his son can ever be,’ he said, 
pushing himself off the sill and returning to the table.
The Ghost sniffed. ‘Perhaps, but Lucid almost had us… had you.’ 
He raised a hand. ‘I am not apportioning blame.’
Yes, he was.
‘But had it not been for the stupidity of his troops, his invasion 
would have been successful. He caught us—and I believe the term is—
with our pants down.’
Gabriel glared at the semi-transparent politician in the long, blue 
robe and tried not to swear. ‘We,’ he said slowly, ‘were caught… with 
our pants down, as you put it, because your agents failed to provide 
any useful intelligence to warn us that the invasion was imminent.’ 
Now he raised his hand. ‘Despite the fact that you had many, many 
agents on the Dark Continent. At great expense.’
‘Be that as it may,’ the Ghost said, waving his hand as if to shoo 
away the implied criticism. ‘We are where we are. And where we are 
is not where I would be if I was where I would like to be.’
Michael blinked slowly while he unravelled it. ‘Then you agree?’
The Ghost watched him for a moment, then nodded. ‘Yes. It is 
unprecedented, but these are perilous times.’ He stood up, rising 
through the tabletop. ‘I shall arrange for a hero to be brought back 
from the Other Place.’
Michael sighed. ‘It does not sit well with me,’ he said and closed 
his eyes tiredly. ‘But I can think of no other way to defeat Lucid.’
‘Our army… your army,’ the Ghost said, ‘has been at peace for so 
many millennia, it has lost its ability to think beyond sparring and 
gentlemanly jousts.’
It was another dig. But also painfully true.
‘We do not need to revisit this,’ Michael said, looking up and fixing 
the Ghost with hard, grey eyes. ‘That is why we must bring the hero 
back with his memory intact. He will teach us the underhanded, 
deceitful, devious, and dishonourable methods of the Other Place.’ He 
stood up. ‘Let’s get this done and put it behind us as soon as possible. 
It leaves a sour taste in my mouth.’
‘The Other Place was created for that very purpose. So that our 
young could live in a world where such traits are considered a virtue. 
And learn the error of that misconception.’
Michael nodded slowly. ‘Except that now we, who have lost the 
ability to be dishonourable, must call on just these traits to save Eden 
from Lucid’s revenge.’
‘I shall instruct the Tallyman to return a suitable hero,’ the Ghost 
said, ‘and we will sup with him using a very long spoon.’
ALL HAIL THE CONQUERING HERO
Dylan was dead, he just hadn’t realised it yet. Nor did he realise he 
was in Heaven, but wouldn’t have believed it had he known — there 
was no way they would have opened the pearly gates, that would have 
been too much of a cock-up even for Saint Peter, who let’s face it, is 
getting a bit, well, doddery — so he kept his eyes firmly shut and 
resisted the temptation to jump up and shout, ‘Ah, missed me!’ He 
heard muffled voices and strained to hear if it was the bad guys 
hanging around in case he recovered from being shot twice at close 
range.
He thought about the past few minutes and wondered how he could 
possibly have survived. He and his sister, Abbi, had been trying to 
open the window, but like most of the stuff in the shabby hotel, it was 
broken, and they’d been caught with nowhere to run when the two 
gunmen burst into the room and started blasting away. They couldn’t 
have missed, and from what bits he could remember, they hadn’t. 
Chalky White’s boys. He’d known he shouldn’t do it at the time, but it 
was just too tempting, all that loose cash.
He felt guilty about getting his sister into this mess, but it was such 
a rare feeling, it soon got bored with being all alone and wandered off.
He moved his fingers and felt sheets. Hey, he was under sheets, so 
he was home in bed and had dreamt it, yippee! But that flew like a 
cast-iron duck. So he must be in hospital, which seemed more likely, 
since these were clean, crisp sheets, and clean sheets of any crispness 
were something he hadn’t owned since he’d packed his bags and 
moved out of his mother’s house to make it on his own. Well, that had 
worked out just fine. A voice in his head whispered, ‘Morgue’, and he 
shut it up quickly.
He could still hear muffled voices, so opened his eyes as wide as a 
spy in a sandstorm and moved them very slowly in the direction of the 
sound. He couldn’t see much, his eyes being mostly shut, but he could 
see he was no longer in the cheap hotel room. There was white, lots of 
white. White is good. He risked taking a proper peek, but kept still, no 
point pushing his luck. Yes, he was in a hospital, he could tell that 
because he was in a bed, a white bed, a white bed that was as hard 
as… the same little voice helped him out, ‘A slab’. Cheers.
He moved his head and looked along the ward at the two rows of 
beds stretching off into the distance, like a railway line of white linen. 
And dead people, rows of dead people in white beds. No, hang on, 
they couldn’t be dead or they’d be in a… ‘Morgue,’ whispered the 
voice again.
He lifted his head a fraction, looked the other way, and saw the 
same rows of white beds against white walls stretching away to a 
convergence point in the distance. Packed like sardines, so it must be 
one of those hospitals for poor folk, but hey, it’s better than being 
dead.
So what about Abbi? He sat up slowly, but all he could see was 
sleeping bumps and no movement. Man, she could be anywhere, 
‘Probably dead,’ the voice said. He gritted his teeth and thought, ‘Shut 
up!’ then realised he’d said it out loud, and the voices had stopped. 
Rats.
He lay back down quickly, closed his eyes, kept still, and hoped 
they’d forget about him.
Like that was going to happen.
He heard the click-click of heels approaching and knew the jig was 
up, looked up and saw two huge nurses at the foot of the bed, their 
faces hidden behind surgical-type masks, but he could see their eyes, 
and that was enough. He threw off the sheet and bolted for the exit, 
wherever that was.
He couldn’t have caused more commotion if he’d streaked naked 
through Wimbledon Centre Court.
Suddenly, white-coated figures appeared from unseen rooms and 
curtained spaces provided for the sole purpose of hiding medics. 
Voices shouted, ‘Stop him!’ Which struck him as nuts, even as he 
skidded on polished linoleum. Why do they always shout that? Who 
are they asking? Who in his right mind is going to tackle a nutter in a 
white nightshirt pelting through a hospital full of dead people? But just 
in case, he dashed between the beds and jumped through an open 
window, which, considering he might have been on the tenth floor, 
was a bit of a rash thing to do. Luckily, it was the ground floor, but 
that wasn’t his fault.
One thing was clear from the moment he sprawled headfirst across 
the cobbles, he wasn’t in Kansas anymore, Toto.
He got up slowly and rubbed his grazed knees. There were people, 
and they were staring at him, but that was nothing new, people were 
always staring at him — usually just before they started throwing 
things and shouting for the police — but these people were not your 
everyday cheery Cockney folk, cor blimey no Mary, they were weird. 
Not weird with humps or anything like that, but they were wearing 
robes tied with rope, floppy hoods, and sandals, and he wondered if 
there was a Friar Tuck convention in town.
He reached behind and was relieved to find that the white gown 
hadn’t got one of those embarrassing gaps at the back.
The town was as weird as the Friar Tucks. The bit he could see 
across the narrow, cobbled street was a jumble of ill-matched wooden 
houses, crammed together so that their sagging pitched roofs touched 
and overlapped each other above the narrow alleys that tapered to 
nothing six feet above the cobbles. There was clearly a shortage of real 
estate space as the houses had been added to and extended vertically 
with no regard for order or the laws of gravity.
The Friar Tucks were backing off as if they were afraid of him, 
which was cool, except that nobody was ever afraid of him, so that 
meant they were afraid of someone or something behind him. He 
decided not to look around, so he wouldn’t have to see what was 
scaring them. Yeah, that’s a plan, ignore it and it goes away, stands to 
reason. He turned and looked. Well, so much for willpower.
It wasn’t the white-suited minotaur climbing through the window 
that had the people cowering in fear — that was just your everyday, 
run-of-the-mill man with the head of a bull. It was the man standing at 
the open window that had the townsfolk squeezing into any little nook 
or cranny — though they had to double up in the nooks, there being a 
shortage of crannies.
Dylan stared open-mouthed at the man, at his long white hair and 
translucent skin, his pink eyes with piercing red pupils, and wide-
spaced teeth showing between lips pulled back in what might have 
been a smile. He was too tall for this world and had adjusted by 
hunching his shoulders and leaning forward, like an albino vulture 
waiting for its prey to peg it so that it could tear the flesh off its still-
warm body. And presently, that body belonged to Dylan. The vulture 
spread his smile, and his teeth flashed like an advert for Hollywood 
White teeth bleach. He wagged a long, bony finger at Dylan.
The small crowd watching from the shadows of the houses knew 
this vulture as the man who caught the loonies who escaped from the 
asylum, a creature to stay well clear of. What they didn’t know was 
this was the Tallyman, Trinity’s truant officer, whose job it was to 
catch any students who wandered away from the Academy and return 
them to their studies, and their physical condition on return depended 
on whether or not they resisted — and strangely, they always did.
Dylan stared into those pink eyes and felt his will start to ebb, like 
the stuttering feeling when an escalator slips. With a tremendous 
effort, and because the minotaur was now out of the window, he tore 
his gaze away and did what any self-respecting, red-blooded male 
would do under similar circumstances. He ran away.
The minotaur gave chase and was surprisingly nimble for a chap 
with a bull’s head. This was a seriously ugly creature, with a squat, 
over-muscled body, hairy arms extending below his knees, and vicious 
horns curving up out of its huge head through a thick mane of black 
hair that flowed over bulging shoulders. But it was its face that was its 
real winning feature. It had a low forehead, showing an intellect that 
suited its job as guard dog on two legs, and an elongated snout that 
finished in a huge jaw lined with razor teeth, that only added to the 
canine bone-chomper image. This was what was chasing Dylan in a 
shuffling run along the cobbled streets of Medieval World. It couldn’t 
get any worse.
But of course it could.
As Dylan ran towards the end of the narrow street, two more of the 
creatures stepped out onto the cobblestones. This is bad, he thought, 
putting himself in the running for the understatement of the year 
award.
The two minotaurs smiled, or at least the flesh around their mouths 
peeled back to reveal pointed yellow teeth. One of them was wearing a 
nose-ring, and it crossed his mind that it might be a fashion statement. 
He didn’t know — and thankfully for his sanity, would never know — 
that the nose-ring wearer was a female. There is a long and colourful 
story behind her struggle to be accepted as one of the Catchers, but 
some creature’s habits are best not described in detail, sometimes it’s 
just better not to go there.
Dylan glanced over his shoulder and saw that the other monster was 
gaining on him. It was because of the sharp grit beneath his shoeless 
feet, he told himself. Ignoring the fact that he was a physical wreck 
whose idea of exercise was making six trips to the fridge to fetch beer 
instead of carrying the whole pack in one go. And here in Medieval 
Land, his physical condition seemed to have improved not a jot. 
Things were looking bleak for our recently dead hero.
As mister and missus minotaur opened their arms and began to edge 
forward, ready for the catch, a black cat strolled out of a narrow alley, 
walked into the middle of the street, and gave the monsters a long, old-
fashioned look. They shot bolt upright, as if goosed by Ol’ Flattop, and 
backed off. As the cat looked them up and down slowly, they turned 
and fled in terror.
‘Thanks, moggy,’ Dylan said and ran out of the street and into a big 
square dominated by a ramshackle market selling perfectly ordinary 
fruit and vegetables, that differed from the real thing only in their 
gnarled and misshapen form — and by a complete lack of copious 
amounts of decent plastic wrapping.
The market was teeming with men in flowing tunics, breeches and 
stockings. Dylan did a double take. Stockings? That’d go down well at 
the Old Blood ’n Sawdust on a Saturday night. But the women were 
cute, wearing smocks and ankle-length kirtles, emphasizing their 
innocence and purity, an image that appealed to him greatly, even 
pursued by the bone-chompers. They were staring at him with a 
mixture of shock and curiosity, and he was pleased to see that the 
curiosity came mostly from the girls, giggling and pointing at his 
knobbly knees. Maybe it wouldn’t be too bad here in Medieval World
—
The giggling stopped abruptly, and the crowds backed off, eager to 
put the stalls between themselves and whatever it was they were 
pointing at behind him. Here we go again, he thought, where’s that 
moggy?
He turned around to look for the cat and saw the angel. He knew his 
jaw had dropped, but the data link between his brain and his muscles 
was in overload. A real angel stood there, her long blonde hair rippling 
in the soft breeze and her bare breasts rising and falling gently with 
each breath. And she had wings, real wings, curving up above her 
shoulders and disappearing behind her back. He had never seen a more 
beautiful creature.
She smiled and beckoned him to come closer, something she didn’t 
have to do twice. He walked slowly towards her, his arms hanging 
limply at his sides and his eyes fixed on her breasts. She was stunning, 
but she was about to find out that he was a pretty good catch himself, a 
bit of a…
He fell over, or more accurately, he tripped over, and landed flat on 
his face in the dusty straw scattered across the cobbles to muffle the 
horses’ hooves and to soak up anything they might drop. And his face 
was right in whatever they might drop, and it smelt like…
‘Meow,’ said the cat sitting and watching him.
A shot of anger zipped into his stomach. ‘Damn you, moggy, now I 
look a right prat!’ And he surely did, and in front of the beautiful 
winged angel. But wait up, hold the phone, there are no such things as 
beautiful winged angels. Of course, there should also be no such thing 
as minotaurs, but Murphy’s Law states quite clearly that if it’s fragile, 
beautiful and has bare breasts, it does not and never will exist, whereas 
if it’s ugly, huge and likely to tear your head off, it’s a racing certainty 
that it’s real.
He looked up slowly, convinced the beautiful angel would have 
flown, dismissing him for a right wally, and there she was, gone. In 
her place stood the albino vulture smiling down at him, anticipating his 
eyeballs for a tasty snack.
With a painful wince, Dylan pulled himself up onto his scraped 
knees and looked past the pale horror to the minotaurs emerging 
sheepishly into the street — which is quite an achievement for bull-
people. He pointed urgently across the square and, as the albino 
turned, jumped to his feet and ran into the tangle of stalls, careful not 
to upset any of the wares — he’d seen those movies where the 
townsfolk come hunting the stranger, with flaming torches and a rope.
The albino let him run and looked around slowly to see if he had 
been observed by the Ghost’s watchers. He couldn’t see anyone, but 
that’s the nature of unseen watchers. He pointed to the sides of the 
square, and the minotaurs split up and shuffle-ran to the houses, while 
he walked slowly down the middle of the square, the crowd parting 
before him.
But Dylan had got clean away, skilfully evading his pursuers and 
taking refuge in a quiet courtyard at the side of a small, empty square 
where he could see anybody or anything approaching, if he hadn’t 
slammed the big gates, that is. Well, there you go, he thought, it’s not 
too bad a getaway. And he was right. He was in a cool, quiet 
courtyard, with fragrant flowers and stuff — and smooth walls that 
stretched up like white cliffs, right up to the rooftops fifty feet above, 
without a single door, window or handhold.
Outstanding.
What the rest of us knew some time ago slowly dawned on him, 
and he began to mutter, curse, and generally do nothing that resembled 
escape. He knew that if he opened the gates, there would stand the 
minotaurs, snarling, snorting and maybe pawing the dust, prior to 
goring him like an apprentice farmhand in a red shirt. He kicked the 
flowerpots, muttered, whimpered some more, and finally convinced 
himself that this was just his over-active imagination given wings by 
raw fear. He pulled the gates open a slit and looked out, chanting, 
‘Nobody there… nobody there…’
There was nobody there — except the three minotaurs standing 
quietly in the street, waiting for him to give up and come on out. The 
one considered by the Squad to be the cheeky little thing with the 
nose-ring snorted attractively and shuffled forward.
He was about to become el Matador (deceased) when he spotted his 
means of escape. A white stallion was leaning against a wall a little 
way across the square, and Dylan threw caution to a convenient wind 
and ran. Somebody had draped a feather car rug over the animal, and 
he supposed there was going to be a frost.
The horse watched him coming, snuffled its irritation, and stood up, 
ready for the human to do all that jabbing and pulling they seemed 
obsessed with, when it was perfectly obvious where they wanted him 
to go. If they would just let him get on with it, he was quite able to 
find his own way from here to wherever, without—
Dylan jumped onto the horse, and a feeling of elation rushed 
through him now that he had a means of escape that excluded running 
around on bare feet. The elation masked one very important point — 
he couldn’t ride.
But he needn’t have worried about being unsaddled onto the 
cobblestones. The horse took four strides, unfolded its car-rug that 
turned out to be huge wings, and soared into the pale sky, with Dylan 
screaming, hugging the pommel, and hanging on for dear life.
The horse, curious that there was no pulling, jabbing or kicking, 
glanced back to see what sort of horseman it was that left the reins 
dangling and made that dreadful screeching noise. He saw the chubby 
youth clinging to his saddle, decided that this was a human who 
needed ditching at the earliest possible moment, and set about doing 
just that. Usually the head down sudden stop did the trick, pitching the 
hijacker over its head and down to the street below. It had worked 
several times before, and he recalled the fat thief who had plummeted 
screaming into the city cesspit. Happy days. He tilted his wings and 
stopped, like a Harrier jump jet reversing thrust.
Dylan’s grip of death broke, and he shot forward, but fortunately, 
the ornate pommel saved him, by slamming into his groin. How lucky 
was that? He slid back into the saddle, undecided whether to clutch 
safety or comfort.
The horse took off, peeved that the young human was still there. 
Plan B it is, then. He looked around until he saw what he needed and 
swooped down and under the bridge with barely a foot clearance, a 
superb piece of flying in any circles, loops, or straight lines.
Dylan was not impressed and would have been mashed, had the 
sudden manoeuvre not caused him to slide out of the saddle to hang on 
like a circus trick-rider clinging to the side of the horse.
‘Hey, pack it in!’ he shouted, his voice bouncing back from the 
bridge walls.
The horse didn’t understand the plea, not speaking human, and was 
too busy anyway, trying to decide whether or not a loop-the-loop 
would do the trick, but he couldn’t get the flight calculations sorted out 
with all that screaming and shouting, so decided to hit that idea on the 
head, reached back, and tried to bite his rider. Primitive, true, but it 
still might have worked, sometimes the daftest things do, but the 
human flinched away at the last moment, as teeth snapped shut with a 
loud snick — and they really were truly excellent teeth, a testament to 
the oral cleansing properties of good carrots.
So that was Plan A, B and the long shot of nibbling the human’s leg 
all done. Okay, onto the next plan, except that he’d never needed a 
next plan. Think, think, what he needed was… was… help. Ah, 
exactly, help. Without further deliberation, he beat his powerful wings, 
banked, and turned back towards his point of departure.
‘No!’ Dylan screamed as he realised what was happening. He 
leaned forward, grabbed the flapping reins and pulled hard with his 
right hand, as he’d seen the cowboys do when the herd was about to 
stampede them to death.
The horse turned, then cursed itself for its reflex action, but 
obedience to the reins was too deep seated, too ingrained. He sighed a 
horse sigh and gave up, deciding that the sooner he got the human 
where he wanted to go, the sooner he could go back to his nap. And 
he’d been thinking the wall he was leaning on was a bit hard, which 
just goes to show that you don’t know what you’ve got till it’s gone.
As the horse turned, Dylan could see the minotaurs glaring up at 
him and waving their huge fists. He considered giving them an 
appropriate gesture, but thought better of it, aware that he hadn’t got 
far enough away yet, and they looked pretty angry already.
Then he saw the girl, and she looked a whole lot angrier than 
anyone who’d tried to swat him so far today. He frowned. There she 
was in the square, jumping up and down, waving her fists and shouting 
something that probably wasn’t a cheery farewell. What could possibly 
be wrong? Ah, right, it was her horse, wasn’t it? He flinched and 
sucked air through his teeth.
‘Sorry!’ he shouted, but she was too far away in the rapidly 
shrinking square and too busy promising painful retribution to hear.
As the horse flicked its tail and corrected its physical and mental 
attitude, Dylan saw the minotaurs grab the girl, saw her struggle and 
kick one of them between the legs. Pity it was the one with the nose 
ring. She thrashed and fought, but she was a minnow caught in a 
bear’s claw, three bears’ claws, in fact.
Dylan pulled the reins to turn the horse and… and what? Ride down 
to rescue the fair maiden? Yeah, that would work. He relaxed his grip 
and swore.
I wish he would make up his mind, the horse thought, irritated at 
being distracted from the complex mathematics of flight. Most people 
think it’s just a matter of batting your wings and off you go, which 
proves how little humans know about self-powered flight. He sighed. 
There are a million calculations to do: wing beats per minute, attitude, 
altitude, speed and crosswind compensation. The list is endless, but of 
course, he’d mastered it long ago, though not a difficult feat for a 
horse of such — he looked up, saw the church spire dead ahead and 
made a hasty right turn.
Dylan fell off.
Ah, the horse thought, now there’s a Plan C for future reference. He 
turned slowly and headed home to his warm stable and a crunchy oat 
dinner.
Dylan didn’t do falling very well, which is surprising considering 
the practice he’d had during his drinking days, when he’d fallen over, 
fallen down and fallen out, but that was just Monday to Saturday, 
Sunday being a day off, which is always a good reason to celebrate. 
But those days were behind him now, since that time he decided to 
sun-bathe on the windowsill of his first-floor bedsit. Luckily the roof 
of the parked police car had broken his fall, amongst other things.
He still wasn’t doing falling well, but the screaming was top-notch, 
just loud enough and with that appealing vibrato you hear from the 
truly great tenors, and it was right on key — a nice B flat, rising to F 
sharp as the ground approached.
The cobbles rushed up to meet him, and his life did its best to flash 
before his eyes in the limited time available, skipping over the boring 
bits to get to the juicy scenes.
 
 
Dylan’s low-key arrival had not gone entirely unnoticed by the 
Guardians, the elite group tasked with keeping Trinity safe and well 
ordered.
Michael listened to the report being delivered by Jehoel, a cocky 
young Guardian who expected very soon to be promoted to a position 
better suited to his under-appreciated ability, and this breach of 
security could be just the opportunity he was looking for.
‘The transitioner has escaped the guards and is at large in the city,’ 
Jehoel said and watched his Supreme Commander get up from behind 
his desk and begin to pace his office. ‘What are your orders, my lord?’ 
He suppressed a smile at his boss’s obvious discomfort. Things were 
not looking too good for the Old Man — which pleased him greatly. 
This was the second breakdown of the Academy security in just a few 
months, and the last one had led to a war that even now threatened to 
return to Trinity.
Michael stopped pacing and stared out through the wide window 
without seeing the beautiful country rolling down to the banks of the 
River Styx. He too was thinking about the last time a transitioner had 
escaped. He knew that many people woke up during Transition, but 
few remained awake for very long, the Watchers saw to that. A few 
had even managed to get out of the Academy, but they were usually so 
disoriented that they were easily recovered, and even those who gained 
their senses enough to run were quickly retrieved by the Tallyman and 
his ghastly Catchers, which was just as well, as they carried the 
imprint given to them before they went to the Other Place, and that 
imprint could easily mean they were the wrong gender, a murderer, or 
both. And such a state of mind could see them totally unhinged and 
highly dangerous.
But Lucid had been the first one in two millennia to evade the 
Tallyman and escape across the Perfumed Sea to the Dark Continent.
What worried Michael most was that Lucid could not have made 
his escape without help, and that help must have come from someone 
in a position of influence. Nobody, not even the son of the Fallen 
Angel, could just walk out of the Academy, stroll through the city, and 
board a boat for the Dark Continent without the Tallyman or the 
Guardians hooking him and reeling him in.
Lucid had wasted no time in letting it be known that the son of 
Lucifer had returned to free his father from the dimension of ever-
lasting war into which he’d been cast for plotting against the Senate. 
His call had rallied the disparate tribes of rogues and monsters, exiled 
angels and those beyond redemption, who had sought refuge on the 
Dark Continent. But even though their spies had reported Lucid’s 
actions to the Guardians, they were still totally unprepared when his 
army set out towards the Perfumed Sea on route to Trinity. For the son 
of Satan to have moved against them so quickly, even now seemed 
impossible.
Michael was furious with himself and his spies for not seeing this 
coming, when with hindsight, it was obvious that Lucid would try to 
avenge his father’s imprisonment and seek to release him. The thought 
chilled Michael’s blood.
The day and night following the news of Lucid’s imminent arrival 
had been a mad scramble to assemble men and equipment, with every 
able-bodied   man   and   woman   from   the   triple   city   of   Trinity 
volunteering or being volunteered, and runners being sent to every 
corner of the land, but it was still a pitiful rabble of men, women, and 
children that welcomed him as he emerged from the palace at dawn on 
the second day of the invasion.
Michael led his hastily formed rag-tag army across the Purple Plain, 
a fist clutching his heart at the thought of what was to come. He rode 
alongside Uriel and the war-chariots of the First Triad, close behind 
the vanguard. Overhead, winged horses flew in perfect formation, 
guided by young girls picked for their riding skill and light build, 
while above them the beautiful and terrifying mist dragons soared 
through the clouds, their riders mere boys, but proud and thrilled to be 
actually riding their charges into battle, when a hundred generations 
before them had simply practiced their art in preparation for this day.
At the vanguard of the army thundered the huge desert dragons, 
pounding across the plain at a pace that would outrun a galloping 
horse. These monsters were ridden by muscular Second Triad angels, 
struggling to control the man-eaters that fiercely resented being treated 
as beasts of burden. They were noble creatures, at the top of the food 
chain in their natural habitat in the scorching white deserts of the 
Southern Continent, where the searing heat would drive a man insane. 
They were powerful, terrifying creatures that would have had their 
riders for a light snack had they suffered even a moment’s loss of 
vigilance.
Bringing up the rear was the infantry that would do the fighting; 
everyday people indistinguishable from the foot soldiers of any army 
in any part of the multiverse, armed with scythes, knives, spikes, hoes, 
or anything they could find to use as a weapon. A thousand men and 
women running in the dust of the stampede ahead of them, wild eyed, 
shouting, cursing — terrified.
Michael halted his chariot on a hill and watched the pathetically 
small and ill-equipped army race across the plain to engage the 
invaders in the desperate and seemingly doomed bid to prevent them 
gaining a foothold in Trinity. It was a magnificent and suicidal act of 
heroism, and one that he knew was almost certain to fail.
Standing with his commanders, he watched as the two armies ran 
together like blood and water. Winged horses and Messengers fell 
under a storm of arrows and crossbow bolts that filled the sky like 
wind-blown hay. Mist dragons crashed to the ground, brought down by 
quarrels as big as fence posts, fired from the massive siege crossbows 
pulled by squads of minotaurs. And all around, men and monsters 
hacked at each other in a crush of bodies that left almost no room to 
move.
On a hill across the valley, Lucid stood with his lieutenants, 
watching the carnage on the plain below and patting his dog, a vicious 
three-headed beast, whose life and duty was to protect its master. He 
smiled smugly and waited patiently for Michael’s army to break and 
run.
But they did not run. For two long days the battle raged, with 
exhausted soldiers on both sides collapsing to sleep among the dead as 
night fell, until morning brought the nightmare once again. Though 
many would not see the morning, for in the dead of night, the demon 
Abbadon drifted across the battlefield, seeking out the young riders 
and slitting their throats as they slept.
At the end of the second day, Michael looked down from the hilltop 
and saw the last of the beautiful mist dragons lying dead or dying 
beside their young riders, scattered like broken toys on the bloody 
battlefield, and knew that he was witnessing the extinction of these 
legendary creatures.
Of all the many stories of bravery that came out of that day, it was 
the self-sacrifice of the mist dragon SatoJu and her young rider that 
would be told and retold in taverns and in the hushed bedrooms of 
children waiting for sleep.
SatoJu had begun the flight with the others, nervous but excited at 
the thought of glory and battle. She responded willingly to the 
directions of the boy, known to his peers as Skyrider for his love of 
flying above the clouds, higher than any other flyer dared go. Skyrider 
was one of the youngest of the flight, barely twelve years old, but 
already showing courage far beyond his years. His unflinching bravery 
was to cost him his life.
He and SatoJu left the rest of the flight behind and climbed above 
the clouds as high as possible, up to where the air became so thin his 
lungs screamed their desperate need. From here, he could see the 
whole of the Purple Plain rolling down from the mountains of Nysa to 
the Perfumed Sea.
It was from this high vantage point that he saw a section of Lucid’s 
line break away and race to the right to outflank Michael’s exhausted 
force, and he knew they would breast the hill above the army before 
even SatoJu’s speed could get him back to warn his commander. He 
sent a single thought that SatoJu was already anticipating, and she 
folded her wings and dived through the clouds, straight at the enemy.
The outflanking force comprised more than two hundred heavily 
armed cavalry, centaurs, and minotaurs armed with their deadly siege 
crossbows.
SatoJu erupted out of the sky, spraying liquid fire onto the 
galloping army. Terrified horses stampeded, hurling their stunned 
riders to the ground under the pounding hooves of horses and centaurs. 
Riders fought to control their mounts as they careered into each other 
and reared in terror as the fire poured over them.
Those few precious moments of shock and confusion gave SatoJu 
time to turn and make a second run, and the last of the centaurs, the 
most feared of all the cavalry, fell under the searing stream of fire.
For all their power, it was not the quarrels from the two-metre-wide 
crossbows that ended the suicidally heroic flight, but a single arrow 
fired in panic by a lowly trooper a moment before a blazing centaur 
crushed him to death.
But the shaft found its mark.
SatoJu felt the ever-present telepathic link sever like the parting of 
an umbilical cord and knew the boy was dead even before he fell 
forward against her neck. She cried out against the sudden silence, 
swept round in a tight arc, and roared her grief at the surviving enemy, 
a wash of white-hot flames exploding everything and everyone it 
touched. Then she beat her wings and climbed into the sky, tears 
streaming from her golden eyes. She climbed up through the clouds, 
higher than she and Skyrider had ever been, until finally the air was 
gone and oblivion wiped away the pain and the silence. As darkness 
closed over her, she saw the boy fall away, his unseeing eyes open and 
his hands outstretched, as if reaching for her in death.
Though SatoJu’s skill and Skyrider’s sacrifice had saved the army, 
it was the young girls on their winged horses who finally turned the 
battle.
While Lucid’s army of monsters and demons roared and charged 
the exhausted farmers and shopkeepers, the Messengers carried vital 
orders to the scattered commanders, taking to the air again and again, 
knowing their fate should the massive crossbow bolts bring them down 
among the enemy.
Like crashing waves, Lucid’s army surged and charged the 
wavering line of men and angels again and again, then strutted 
triumphantly  back   to  their   ranks   with  cheers   ringing  in   their 
ears. While the monsters preened and postured, Michael’s army, 
guided by the orders carried by the Messengers, moved as a single 
unit, gradually rolling up the invaders, until once again their backs 
were to the sea.
From the high ground above the rocky beach and protected by 
Michael’s irregular infantry, his disciplined ranks of archers rained 
arrows on Lucid’s massed men and beasts for hour upon hour, fed with 
new ammunition by children barely out of infancy, running back and 
forth to the endless convoys of supply wagons arriving at the rear.
It was obvious that the slaughter could not continue, but still the 
man-beasts roared their contempt and defiance as they charged up the 
beach and died.
On the morning of the third day, the remains of Michael’s army 
climbed wearily to its feet and stared in disbelief at the deserted beach. 
For a long time an eerie silence hung over the battlefield, then the 
exhausted troops began to cheer, to laugh, to hug each other and sob.
 
 
 
‘Your orders, my Lord,’ Jehoel repeated.
Michael turned back from the window and let the images retreat 
below the surface of his mind, where they would wait to emerge again 
in his dreams.
‘Are you certain He does not know about the runner?’ he asked.
Of course He knows, Jehoel thought, He knows everything. ‘No, 
my lord, I am sure He does not.’ He shifted uncomfortably. ‘I believe 
He is taking…’ Jehoel chose his words carefully, ‘… a trip.’
Michael closed his eyes for the briefest moment, but it was long 
enough to reveal his feelings about his chief’s ‘trips’. If His obsession 
became public knowledge, it could ruin everything and cause a scandal 
that would give the senators the ammunition they needed to force an 
election, which, with Lucid’s likely return, was the last thing the 
Supreme Commander needed. The first act of a new Leader of the 
Senate would be to poke into everything, that’s what they always did, 
that and give titles and positions to their cronies, who then felt obliged 
to exercise their new power.
‘That will be all,’ Michael said.
Jehoel frowned and stood up slowly. ‘My lord?’ he said, annoyed at 
being dismissed.
‘That will be all,’ Michael repeated, with the merest glance at the 
Guardian, but that was enough.
Despite Michael’s apparent concern, Dylan waking up in Transition 
and evading the Tallyman was no surprise. He had tasked the Ghost 
with finding His Instrument to bring Lucid to book. What better way 
to catch a thief than to send another thief? But the choice of Instrument 
puzzled him. Of all the beings in Transition, the Ghost had chosen a 
youth, and one with a record that would make a grave robber wince.
He picked up a small bell and rang it once — but contrary to 
popular belief, an angel didn’t get his wings. Angels don’t have wings.
A moment later a side door opened, and Obadiah, a fawning, greasy 
little man, entered and waddled across to the desk without looking up. 
He wrung his podgy hands in the certain knowledge that he was too 
humble for such an important position as servant to the Supreme 
Commander. Yes, far too humble.
 
 
 
Dylan opened his eyes a little, expecting to be dead, but all he could 
see was a huge cobblestone filling his vision. Slowly his fear-boggled 
brain put the cobblestone into perspective. It wasn’t huge, it was just 
really close.
He opened his eyes fully and found he was floating a few inches 
above the street, which was impossible. Okay then. His nose slapped 
down onto the stone, and a rather overdressed firework display burst in 
his head, but no classical music, which was a plus. He groaned and 
rolled onto his back. ‘Ow da gell…’ he said loudly.
‘What did he say?’ a voice said somewhere beyond his tears.
‘I don’t know,’ another said. ‘He’s holding his nose. Do you think 
he has a cold?’
Dylan sat up, took his hands off his expanding nose, and looked up 
at the speakers, though it would be more accurate to say he looked up 
at one of the speakers, the other being at ground level. He stared 
around quickly in case he wasn’t actually going mad, but there really 
was only the old man and the cat. Okay, insane it is, then, must have 
been the fall, or the fear of the fall, or his life’s rerun — which is never 
as good as the old Polaroid’s remember it.
He looked the speaker over and saw an old man wearing a blue silk 
robe with stars and moons embroidered randomly on the sleeves. 
‘You’re a wizard,’ Dylan said, in a tone that was more a statement 
than a question.
The old man was puzzled. ‘I am Lailoken,’ he said slowly, in case 
the poor boy was touched.
‘Merlin,’ Dylan stated flatly, climbing painfully to his feet and 
putting out his hand. ‘Thanks, Merlin.’
The wizard looked at the hand for a moment, still frowning. ‘Thank 
me for what?’
Dylan pointed at the cobbles. ‘It was you who saved me from being 
road kill.’ He shrugged and let his hand fall unshaken.
Merlin smiled. ‘It was a small thing.’
‘Might be a small thing to you, but it’s all I’ve got,’ Dylan sniffed, 
turning and walking away up the middle of the narrow street.
Merlin trotted after him and put a hand on his arm. ‘You cannot go 
back that way.’
‘Oh,’ Dylan said, ‘and why not exactly?’
‘The Tallyman,’ Merlin said, as if that was enough.
Dylan looked at the old wizard, then back down the street. ‘Who 
were you talking to back there?’
Merlin followed his pointing finger. The cat sat at the side of the 
street, watching them with a slightly haughty demeanour, as cats do.
‘I was speaking to you,’ Merlin said helpfully.
‘No, no, before that.’
‘Why do you call me Merlin when my name is Lailoken?’ Merlin 
said, changing the subject.
Dylan pointed at the embroidered robe and shrugged. ‘If the cap 
fits.’
Merlin put his hand on his head and felt around with a puzzled 
expression that he was afraid was going to be the norm from now on.
‘Merlin was a magician, back where I…’ Dylan started, but 
couldn’t work out how to finish.
Merlin shook his head and looked around quickly. ‘No, you are 
mistaken.’ He shook his head some more. ‘Magic is not allowed here, 
it is expressly forbidden, and the punishment for flaunting the law is 
banishment.’
Well, that cleared that up.
Dylan shrugged. ‘Merlin, saying you’re not Merlin doesn’t make 
you not Merlin when you are Merlin.’
Merlin tried to unravel the sentence, but his brain began to hurt.
Dylan smiled and started walking again, but stopped and sighed as 
Merlin put his hand back on his arm. ‘What is it now?’
‘The Tallyman, remember?’
‘No,’ Dylan answered, then nodded. ‘Albino guy with a beak?’
‘A beak?’ Merlin asked and then smiled. ‘Ah, yes, a beak.’ He 
stepped up onto the narrow pavement and raised himself up to Dylan’s 
chest height. ‘If the Tallyman catches you, then I’m afraid it will all be 
over.’
Dylan sighed, if he had a pound for every time he’d heard that… 
well, actually, he’d have a pound, but that’s not the point.
‘Where did those weird creatures come from?’ he said, pointing at a 
wall in the general direction of the Academy.
Merlin shrugged. ‘I don’t know, I wasn’t there.’
‘True. Well, they were big guys, with horns and looks only a 
mother could love.’
Merlin nodded slowly. ‘Minotaurs,’ he said. ‘They are the Catchers, 
they… err, catch.’
‘But they’re not real,’ Dylan explained.
Merlin looked puzzled again.
‘They’re a myth,’ Dylan went on. ‘You know, a fairy tale, but with 
horns.’
Merlin smiled. ‘Ah, I see. Yes, transitioners sometimes retain a 
partial memory of home. That will be where your myth came from.’
‘Yeah, right,’ Dylan said.
‘You are going to find a lot of things in Eden that seem strange to 
you, or mythical, but we had them first.’
Dylan didn’t want to hurt the old duffer’s feelings by explaining 
that just because a couple of bouncers let their hair grow and favour 
horned headgear, it doesn’t make them mino-thingies. He smiled what 
he thought was a reassuring smile and crouched down to look the old 
man in the eye, ‘Look,’ he said gently, ‘that damned flying horse.’ He 
looked up, as if expecting to see it grinning down at him, and 
completely missed the point that it had been a mythical flying horse. 
‘Well, it belonged to a girl…’
‘Yes,’ Merlin said, ‘a Messenger.’
‘Okay, a Messenger. Anyway, some heavies…’ He tried to think, 
but couldn’t remember how. ‘What did you call those things?’ He 
frowned for a moment. ‘Catchers, right. Anyway, they grabbed the 
girl…’ He raised his hand. ‘Okay, they grabbed the Messenger-girl.’
Merlin shook his head. ‘Are you sure they were Catchers?’ He 
frowned again. ‘Kidnappers are usually Lucid’s monsters.’
Two questions jumped into Dylan’s mind, the second one being 
why am I standing in the middle of the street talking about monsters to 
this old loon who thinks he’s a wizard. He went with the first. ‘Who’s 
Lucid?’
Merlin looked over his shoulder, as though afraid he might be 
overheard. ‘Lucid is the Lord of the Dark Continent.’ He could see 
from Dylan’s expression that more was needed, took his arm, and led 
him in the opposite direction to the one he’d been going. Dylan did not 
resist.
‘Lucid is the son of the Fallen Angel and wishes to invade Trinity 
and take over the Academy. If he is successful, then this will be the 
end of all creation, the whole multiverse.’
Dramatic enough?
He saw Dylan’s surprised expression and continued. ‘Some time 
ago. Let me see.’ He rubbed his chin, which appeared to help. ‘Six 
months, yes, six months ago, well, there was a war between Trinity…’ 
He saw that puzzled look again and pointed at the street by way of 
explanation. ‘Trinity?’ No, not received. He sighed and clicked his 
teeth together as he thought how to phrase it so the poor boy would 
understand. ‘The war was between the people of the Triple City and 
Lucid’s army seeking to free the Fallen Angel.’ He could have saved 
his enamel.
‘Who won?’ Dylan asked without a flicker of irony.
Merlin stared at him for a moment, trying to determine if he was 
serious, and decided he was. ‘Some would say we did, but I believe it 
was a draw.’
Dylan knew a draw usually meant a replay and decided to get out of 
there as soon as possible, but first he had to save the girl. Not out of 
any misplaced sense of chivalry or honour, well, okay, a bit, but 
mostly because he’d got her into the mess in the first place — and 
because she looked really cute, of course. ‘So this Lucid bloke has 
grabbed the girl.’
‘Yes,’ Merlin said, nodding, ‘he took her, certainly.’
‘Then they’ve done this before?’
‘Many times.’
Dylan   stared   in   surprise.   ‘Then   why  doesn’t   somebody   do 
something about it?’
Merlin blinked slowly as his mind processed the question. ‘What do 
you suggest?’
‘Well, they could send a gunboat, for starters.’
‘What is a gunboat?’ Merlin was beginning to think the young man 
was indeed touched.
Dylan let that one go. ‘What about the police?’
Merlin hazarded a guess. ‘Do you mean the Guardians?’
‘Yeah, okay, the Guardians. Where are they? Let’s go and report 
the kidnapping, and they can go and get her back.’
‘Oh, no, no, no,’ Merlin said, shaking his head to add a couple 
more. ‘You can’t go to the Guardians. They would hand you over to 
the Tallyman.’
‘True,’ Dylan said. ‘If they’re anything like The Bill back home.’ 
He sat on the edge of the pavement, the pavement that had been baking 
in the hot sun all day. He jumped up, rubbing the bits that had been 
scorched through the thin hospital gown. ‘I need to get some more 
clothes.’
Merlin nodded, walked into one of the tall wooden houses, and 
came out a few minutes later carrying a bundle of brown rags, which 
he handed to Dylan, who moved them reluctantly under his nose and 
screwed up his face.
‘Did you steal these? ’Cus I’ve got to tell you, the owner isn’t going 
to be in any hurry to reclaim them.’
Merlin smiled. ‘It is your choice. If you wish, you can continue to 
walk around in that shirt, which incidentally, does a poor job of 
covering you.’
Dylan looked down at the short gown. ‘Okay, I’ll go with the rags 
until I can find a clothes store.’
Merlin opened his mouth, then thought better of it and let him start 
to put on the robe. After a moment, he tapped him on the shoulder and 
pulled the long robe round to face the front, otherwise the boy would 
be wearing the hood as a facemask.
The coming days were going to be a severe challenge.
Eventually Dylan got the robe on, but wished he hadn’t. ‘I think 
something is still wearing this,’ he said, scratching various places. 
‘Okay,’ he said at last, the biting having subsided, ‘you were telling 
me about Lucas.’
‘Lucid,’ Merlin corrected.
‘Okay, Lucid. So why is he snatching girls?’ Dylan asked, even 
though he could think of a few reasons. Turns out he was right.
‘Breeding,’ Merlin said and started to walk down the street.
Dylan’s jaw dropped. ‘What?’ He hurried after the old man, who 
was a lot sprightlier than he looked. ‘Wait up! Why is Lucid… 
breeding?’ Stupid question.
He caught up with the wizard and glanced down as the black cat 
padded alongside. ‘I think I’ve seen this cat before.’
Merlin glanced at the cat. ‘Possibly, she gets around.’ He smiled a 
little smile. ‘Her name is Galen.’
Dylan looked at Galen; it was a black cat. There are thousands of 
black cats. ‘Hey, wait, about the girl.’
Merlin nodded knowingly. ‘Yes, she was very pretty, wasn’t she?’
Dylan shrugged. ‘Didn’t notice,’ he lied, ‘I was too busy trying to 
stay on that damned horse.’
‘Not very successfully, it would appear,’ Merlin said.
‘I prefer something with an engine and no brain.’
‘Did you notice anything else about this girl?’ Merlin asked, 
stopping and looking up at Dylan. ‘Besides her looks.’
Dylan pulled an ‘I’m thinking’ face, then nodded slowly. ‘I suppose 
she looked a bit like Abbi.’ He saw the old man’s frown. ‘Abbi’s my 
sister.’ He flinched. ‘Which, now that I think about it, sounds a bit, 
you know, pervy.’
Merlin nodded sagely, not having the vaguest idea what the boy 
was talking about. ‘I’m afraid it is more than a passing resemblance.’
Dylan stared at him. ‘What do you mean?’ He looked back down 
the street and replayed the memory. ‘Come on, that girl was much 
younger than Abbi, and…’ He let it go.
‘And Abbi walks with the aid of a stick,’ Merlin said. It wasn’t a 
question, and he raised his hand to stop Dylan before he could 
respond. ‘Have you asked yourself where you are?’
No, of course he hadn’t, that would involve walking and thinking at 
the same time.
‘I’ve been a bit busy for pondering the meaning of life,’ Dylan said 
sharply, then sighed. ‘Okay, it did occur to me that this was a strange 
town to have such a big hospital.’ He looked around. ‘Too primitive.’
‘Thank you, I’m sure the populace of Trinity would be flattered.’
‘No, that’s not what I meant.’ Yes, it was. ‘It’s a bit… rural.’ Good 
recovery.
‘It’s more than that,’ Merlin said, wandering off.
Dylan took a long look around, as if it was the first time he’d seen 
the rough wooden buildings leaning against each other for support, or 
the cobbled streets without any sign of cars, or anything else 
mechanical for that matter. Rural, he concluded, but a little nagging 
voice told him that was not the whole truth — or maybe he just needed 
a kebab — but wherever he was and whoever that girl was, even if she 
did look a bit like Abbi, he’d dropped her in it, and he was going to get 
her out again. A noble goal, but an obstacle lay in his way — several, 
in fact.
‘Where have they taken her?’ he called after the departing old man, 
who waved a walking stick and strode on, leaving Dylan wondering if 
he’d just missed the stick, or if the old man he’d named Merlin really 
was a bit of a conjurer.
He looked back down the street, as if weighing up what to do next, 
and slowly his shoulders sagged as he realised at last that there was 
nothing he could do, next or at any other time. He strode after the 
wizard and the cat, which had stopped for a moment to give him a long 
looking at before padding after her master.
I hate cats, Dylan thought as he caught up with them.
‘We’re not highly enamoured with you either,’ said a voice in his 
head.
He stopped and looked around, then down at the cat. No, no way, 
he was just tired. ‘Hey, where are we going?’ he called after the 
wizard, who had turned right into a narrow alley. He heard an echoing 
reply that could have been anything and ran after the old man.
‘Hey, wait up!’ But the old man was already rounding a sharp bend 
and disappearing out of sight. Dylan realised suddenly that if he lost 
the wizard, he would be on his own in Medieval World, which would 
be like getting of the Circle Line a stop too soon; man, you could be 
anywhere.
He caught up with Merlin as he crossed a small square, which 
would probably be called something like Piazza Bella Senorita if it 
was in Italy, but here it was called Scragg’s Cobbled Yard. He put a 
hand on the wizard’s arm. ‘Hold up.’ He puffed as he caught his 
breath. No taxis in Medieval World. ‘Let’s sit over there in the shade, 
and you can catch your breath.’ Dylan pointed at a rug some kind soul 
had hung over a low wall in the inviting shade.
It never even occurred to Merlin that the rug was anything other 
than an act of kindness provided for the weary traveller, and he 
followed the boy into the shade, gratefully, it has to be said.
They sat, and Merlin waited patiently for the boy to get his breath 
back. It was time he knew the truth. ‘You remember the story of 
Eden?’
‘Yeah,’ Dylan said, ‘Adam, Eve, and some weasely guy with an 
apple or a snake.’ He shrugged and was sure there was more. 
Something about fig leaves.
Merlin smiled. ‘Rather a simplified version, but it will do as a 
starting point.’
Dylan frowned, an expression that was becoming almost de rigueur 
in this nutty place. ‘What’s that got to do with some hairy guys 
snagging the Messenger-girl?’
‘Like I said, it’s a start.’ He smiled. ‘In fact, it is The start.’ He 
liked that. ‘Many millennia ago,’ Merlin began, and Dylan resisted the 
temptation to add, ‘In a galaxy far, far away.’
Merlin wondered if millennia was pushing the boy too far, but 
decided to go for it. ‘A long time ago,’ he corrected in mid flow, ‘all 
mankind lived here.’ He spread his hands expansively, and Dylan 
looked around Scragg’s Cobbled Yard. ‘It was a bad time, with wars 
and pillaging as the strongest tried to grab whatever everyone else 
had.’ He shook his head. ‘Bad times indeed.’
‘Ah, tell me about it,’ Dylan said absently, in a staring contest with 
the cat, and losing.
‘Very well,’ Merlin said and told him The Story, as his father had 
told him, and his father before him, and… well, a lot of them anyway.
It was dark — which is a bit like saying infinity is big. There was 
nothing in the universe except a big ball of hot swirly fire, rolling 
about itself and crackling angrily. Not pleasant.
Tze was a novice Architect with big plans, and he was about to kick 
one of them off. He poked the big crackling ball with his stick — a 
special Architect’s stick made of, well, Architect-stick stuff. Not much 
happened, except a bit more cracking and fizzling, so he looked 
around to make sure none of the Architects could see him out here in 
the nether regions of the multiverse. He was alone, well, as alone as 
it’s possible to be when you’re part of a cosmic consciousness, which I 
have to tell you, is totally overrated.
‘Oh, sod it,’ he thought, swung his stick over his shoulder, and let 
rip. A perfect setup, not too fast, and a lovely follow-through. The 
swirly ball streaked up towards the top of infinity and curved back a 
little before its surface tension shattered and it exploded with a very 
satisfyingly big bang.
Not too shabby, Tze thought, watching the pretty fireworks whiz 
off into the void. You know, he thought, this could be a good place to 
practice, you know, without anybody seeing my cock-ups and pointing 
a finger.
And so this, contrary to all that rubbish in the press, was how the 
universe was born.
All he had to do now was design a decent planet or two, stick some 
people on them, and he’d be away. Couple of months, tops, and he’d 
have ironed out the kinks in his approach to Architecting. What could 
go wrong?
Things went wrong from the start, as is the way with most best laid 
plans. Tze designed and built an array of star systems, planets, and 
other stellar bric-a-brac as specified in the Architect’s handbook for 
fledging universes. Then he balanced the environment in one of the 
more promising solar systems, but if, as later reported, in the 
beginning was the Word, then that word was ‘bugger!’
He built a nice planet, with lush foliage, and water, and happy 
bunnies, and he saw it was good, so he created man, but it was 
Saturday, and he was tired and a bit bored.
Right off, they started fighting each other — and eating the bunnies, 
which was not part of the Grand Design. And they started multiplying 
at an alarming rate — due mostly to running around in the forest 
wearing nothing but shiny fig leaves. The more of them there were, the 
bigger the punch-ups.
By the time Tze came back after his Sunday off, it was totally out 
of hand. They had invented all sorts of ways of doing each other in, so 
the victor could collect more things, because things, it turned out, gave 
the owner a power over others, so that they bought more things, which 
gave him more power. Tze finished off his breakfast on Monday 
morning and watched his experiment with growing alarm. A nice cup 
of tea later, they had invented automatic weapons and flying machines 
and were grabbing whole countries full of stuff. Two rounds of toast 
munched was time enough for them to have graduated to chemical and 
biological warfare.
He guessed that by the time he’d finished off the little bunch of 
grapes his mom insisted he have every day, the pests would have 
exterminated each other, and his problem will have gone away. Oh, if 
only life were that simple.
A scientist in the western continent had the idea, and it was a 
doozy. He realised that if a man could live forever, well, at least a long 
time, then he would have longer to enjoy all the things he’d got by 
killing off the other folks. Scientifically speaking, it was hard to fault.
Tze saw it straight away, which showed he wasn’t quite the dimwit 
this cock-up would suggest. If these greedy, selfish, and bloodthirsty 
people got to live forever, it wouldn’t be long — in cosmic terms — 
before they were up here with the Architects. Bad, oh yes, really, 
really bad. But what to do? He hid, but that didn’t work out, as they’d 
invented space travel by the time he came out of the cupboard and 
were transporting their barbarism all over the place.
That was it, then, he’d have to tell his master, and the prospect 
caused his knees to shake. He could just hear him now, he’d say…
‘You did what?’ Tze Tsu’s face was purple, which is never a good 
sign for apprentices bringing bad news to the boss. ‘Let me get this 
straight,’ he said through clenched teeth. ‘You created a Place, and 
then you populated it with beings?’
Tze nodded, looked at his feet, and noted they were still there. His 
master would calm down, he always did.
‘Are you completely devoid of even a modicum of sense, boy?’ Not 
calm, then.
‘We could terminate it,’ Tze suggested, breaking the first law of 
being chewed out by your boss — that being… shut up.
‘No…we…cannot…terminate…it,’ Tze Tsu growled very slowly. 
‘Haven’t you learned anything in your time at my drawing board?’
That’ll be no.
Tze Tsu took long, deep breaths, which, though they didn’t calm 
him down much, at least stopped the impending heart attack. He 
walked away; he walked back. ‘That Place was not scheduled for 
deployment until next financial year.’ Which for those of us on 
standard time, is… well, a one with lots of zeros.
‘Very well, it’s done,’ Tze Tsu said, closing his eyes for a moment 
to find his centre. ‘We can simply pick up the pieces and engineer the 
cosmical expanse into some kind of order.’ He scratched his chin. 
‘Perhaps it isn’t too late—’
‘They have discovered immortality,’ Tzu said quietly, without 
looking up. Shouldn’t be a problem, though, his master was a…
‘They have done what?’
Ah, not quite as expected.
‘They have discovered—’
‘Yes, yes, I heard you!’ Tze Tsu snapped. ‘How, how…’ He shook 
his head. This was a disaster. They would say it was his fault; say he 
didn’t keep a tight rein on the smart-ass kid, who was turning out just 
like his father, they’d say. He would have to tell the judges, and they 
would say…
‘He did what?’ Tze Tsu Tza was not chuffing. He had only popped 
into the office today to pick up his golf clubs, and what lands in his 
lap? A breach of the Second Legal Statute, that’s what. He looked at 
the golf bag leaning forlornly against the wall. Well, he could forget 
that, but perhaps it wasn’t completely hopeless, the Second Statute had 
been broken before, and they just rolled the timetable forward. Now if 
it had been the First — he trembled at the thought, but no, it was just 
the Second, so, yes, golf was still possible, if—
‘They have discovered immortality,’ Tze Tsu said quietly, looking 
at his feet and confirming, as had his apprentice, that they were still 
there.
Tze Tsu Tza sat down, put his elbows on the desk, and sank his 
head into his hands. No tears, but the day wasn’t over yet.
That was it, then, he would have to tell the Legislature. He sighed. 
And they would say…
‘He has done what?’ The Deputy Judgemaster General was not a 
happy bunny. He’d been planning to knock off early for a long 
weekend with the missus.
Tze Tsu Tza got in quickly, ‘They have developed immortality,’ 
before they got their hopes up.
There was a shared groan from the twelve old and wise judges 
sitting behind the curved legislature benchette — the full bench being 
in the workshop for repairs after that idiot Tze Tsa Tro dropped the 
mace when he was passing sentence. They’d told the old codger it was 
too heavy for him, but no, off he goes, waving it about like it was a 
wand or something.
The Deputy Judgemaster General — whose name, not surprisingly, 
began with Tze, but then became unpronounceable, so his wife called 
him T G — pulled himself back to the problem. ‘So, gentlemen,’ he 
said a trifle pompously, ‘we have somewhat of a dilemma.’
‘I should say so,’ said that mouthy new judge sitting at T G’s right, 
but shut up under the withering look from his superior.
T G continued, feeling a little cheered by the success of ‘The Look’ 
he’d been practicing in the mirror after shaving. ‘This is a first, I 
believe—’
‘No,’ said the old codger who’d dropped the mace, ‘I think you will 
find that it is not entirely without precedent.’
Whatever, T G thought. ‘Still, it has been long enough for any other 
occurrences of this transgression to have disappeared from shared 
memory.’
All Tze heard was ‘transgression’. He was in the smelly stuff, that 
was for sure.
‘I remember it,’ the old codger said.
Yes, you would, T G thought. ‘Yes, quite,’ he said and took a long 
blow into his hanky. ‘I’m sure it wasn’t the same anyway,’ he added, 
then deployed The Look again before the old codger could argue. ‘I 
propose, therefore, that we terminate the Place forthwith.’ Then he 
could get on with his long weekend before it was too late.
‘Can’t do that,’ the old codger said with a shake of his head and a 
firm set chin — not easy at his age.
‘And why not?’ The mouthy new guy again, butting in.
The old codger took a deep breath in preparation for the big speech.
‘We passed a law some time ago forbidding precisely that action,’ 
T G said, with a sigh of resignation as he remembered why. ‘To 
prevent, err, shall we say, less responsible members of this Legislature 
erasing, shall we say, less favourable actions before a judicial review 
can determine the constitutional—’
‘Before the proper finger wagging and apportionment of blame.’ 
The mouthy new guy had a point.
‘Yes, well, be that as it may,’ T G said, ploughing on. ‘Issuing 
notice for the removal of the unscheduled Place is not within this 
Legislature’s remit.’
‘We could just cull the inhabitants and either start again or use it as 
a prison,’ said the really thin judge with the watery eyes. ‘Or a theme 
park. I love theme parks.’
T G closed his eyes and sighed heavily. ‘Yes, you would,’ he said 
mostly to himself. ‘Prison or theme park? Not much to choose from 
there.’ He made a decision. They could all see that from the puffed-out 
chest and all that nodding. ‘You,’ he said, pointing at Tze Tsu.
Tze Tsu snapped back from the standing nap he’d been taking. 
‘What? Who? It wasn’t me. I have no recollection of that event.’ That 
worked, nobody would have noticed.
‘You,’ T G said in the voice of the Legislature — which was like 
his own voice, but a bit strangled from all the puffing up. ‘You created 
this mess,’ he said to the startled Tze Tsu. ‘Then you clean it up.’ He 
picked up the mace and put it right back down again because it 
weighed a ton and his back was giving him jip. ‘Or else,’ he added, for 
effect.
‘I have an idea,’ Tze said, very, very quietly.
‘Shut up,’ Tze Tsu hissed.
‘Speak up,’ T G said. ‘Speak up, boy.’
Oh great, Tze Tsu thought, seeing his future turn into one designing 
rocks in a two-dimensional universe.
Tze spoke up. ‘We could educate the new beings so they know how 
to behave.’
‘Ah,’ the mouthy new guy said, ‘that won’t work.’
‘That might work,’ said the thin judge with the watery eyes. ‘It’s 
better than terminating them.’ He shrugged a ‘What?’ shrug in 
response to the long pitying looks from the others. ‘It might be fun.’
T G thought about it for a moment, then remembered what his 
missus had promised she would do to him if he was late for the trip to 
her mother’s, again. ‘Yes,’ he said quickly. ‘Yes, go and do that.’ He 
stood up, started to collect his bits and pieces, then stopped. ‘And 
you…’ He pointed at Tze Tsu. ‘We hold you responsible for the 
success or otherwise of this plan,’ he said, putting a mental tick in the 
‘somebody pencilled in for blame’ box. He smiled at the apprentice 
trying to become invisible. ‘Well done, boy.’ The smile again. ‘An 
excellent plan.’ One has to encourage the young.
Tze Tsu got a handful of Tze’s collar and dragged him away from 
the Legislature. ‘What did I tell you?’ he growled. ‘Don’t say 
anything, I said. What did I say?’
‘Don’t say anything,’ Tze said, as is required of such questions.
‘And what did you do?’
We all know what he did, so no answer was necessary.
‘Right,’ Tze Tsu said, stopping on the steps and glaring at the 
novice Architect. ‘No weekends for you, not until you come up with a 
workable plan.’ Right, time for golf.
‘I have a plan,’ Tze said, feeling a little cross now. Okay, he had 
screwed up, but only a bit, and all this fuss and threats. Is that any way 
to reward enthusiasm? No, I don’t think so.
Tze Tsu tilted his head and dared the apprentice to speak.
‘I will visit them and—’
‘Ah!’ Tze Tsu threw his head back and tutted a good tut.
‘I will let them know they are not the only beings in the multiverse 
and that they have to learn to behave.’
That will never… you know, it just might. Tze Tsu chewed the 
inside of his lip and thought it over. ‘Very well,’ he said with a shrug. 
‘Probably a complete waste of time, but we have to be seen to be 
doing something.’ He sat on the marble steps and waved Tze down 
beside him. Cosy. ‘Very well, tell me your plan.’
Tze made it up as he went along. ‘I will speak to their leaders…’ So 
far, so good. ‘And tell them that they must curb their barbarism and…’ 
And…   and…?   ‘They   must   follow   our   guidance   in   becoming 
responsible omnipotent beings.’ Quite good. ‘I will arrange for their 
young to have their souls sent to school in another dimension, where 
they can make all the mistakes they need to make, without the 
consequences.’ Better and better. ‘Then, when their race is truly wise, 
they will be able to join the Accord.’
Tze Tsu nodded slowly. That could work, it was just off the wall 
enough to do it. ‘Very well,’ he said, getting up slowly and rubbing his 
icy-cold bits. ‘Do it.’ Command given, off for a warm bath — he had 
arranged for a quick game of meteor marbles, but now it was too late 
and too cold, and anyway, his partner for the round was much better 
than him, and who wants to keep losing? She could find somebody 
else to humiliate. Bath it is, then.
Tze wasted no time crossing the cosmos to the planet of the 
barbarians, but he couldn’t just turn up, that would scare the pants off 
them, so he visited each of the world’s leaders in various disguises. 
And each one gave him their considered response to his wise and 
bountiful offer.
‘Bugger off!’
Not an auspicious start, so he fell back on the fine foil of the true 
diplomat and told them to sign up or get squished. Okay then, all 
signed up.
Now kids of Trinity go through Transition before they are old 
enough to do anything about it.
Until they reach their troublesome teens, Trinity’s children go to 
ordinary school to learn what they need to support their parents in their 
old age — and rightly so. Then, when they get to be teenagers, and just 
before they become completely unmanageable, they’re bundled off to 
the Academy in Trinity, and then into Transition. Three years later 
they graduate, get their memories adjusted and are turfed out into the 
world.
An elegant solution that works better than expected, with the 
memory adjustment meaning the transitioners even get to go home for 
the holidays, to tell their families all about the great education they 
think they are getting.
 
‘And it has worked perfectly well for six million years. Up till now,’ 
Merlin said pointedly.
‘Yeah,’ Dylan said, still trying to out-stare the cat, ‘and I bet I can 
guess what’s happened.’
Merlin watched him for a moment, waiting for him to guess, then 
gave up. He could see he had exceeded the boy’s one-minute 
concentration span, so summarised it for him. ‘So here we are, in 
Eden, after completing our time in the Other Place,’ he said and stood 
up, clearly ready for the off.
Dylan gave up on the cat, deciding he had an unfair advantage, 
being of higher intelligence. ‘So, this Other Place, err… place,’ Dylan 
said.
‘Oh, yes,’ Merlin said, ‘Transition.’
‘Bit of a strange name,’ Dylan said, trying not to look at the cat, 
who seemed to be annoyed about something.
‘Oh, you call it Earth, but that’s just one of those hungover 
memories transitioners sometimes have and think are real,’ Merlin said 
and strode away, leaving Dylan with his mouth open as a docking port 
for any passing blowfly.
****
…So now Dylan knows he’s not in Kansas. All he has to do is get his 
sister back from Lucid. Maybe he’ll ask him nicely. What could 
possibly go wrong?  
Take a minute to enjoy how our hero handles the challenge – this 
should be good…
Get Book 1 - Eden’s Last Hero from your favorite book site.
AL L  L E I GH  BA R KE R ’S  B OOKS  
Eden Series
Fantasy: All the adventures during the war in heaven
Eden’s Last Hero (Book #1)
Mad times with our reluctant hero
 
Winterwood (#2)
A small town fights for its life
 
Requiem for Eden (#3)
Four young knights take on Lucid’s army and the Norsemen to save 
Eden
The Hellfire Series
All the roller-coaster Hellfire Crime Thrillers
 
A Whisper of Armageddon (Book #1)
Off-the-wall characters, edge-of-your-seat action and suspense
 
The Hellfire Legacy (#2)
Action-packed Ethan Gill Thriller
 
The Orpheus Directive (#3)
The Marine Squad is back in action
Jack Duggan
US Federal Marshals - Crime Thrillers
In Harm’s Way (Book #1)
US Federal Marshal Jack Duggan: sometimes a man has to make a 
stand, no matter the odds.
A Warrant for Jimmy Detroit (#2)
Jack Duggan is the law. There is no exception. But sometimes 
there’s only justice.
Clan Series
Historical Fiction: All of Calum Maclean’s great adventures 
fighting English tyranny
 
Clan: Calum’s Sword (Book #1)
Rip-roaring Adventures during the Jacobite Rebellion
  
Clan: Calum’s Exile (#2)
Calum’s adventures in The New World
 
Clan: Calum’s Country (#3)
Calum’s Return to Scotland
Soldiers
Historical Fiction: World War One
Regret’s Mission
Explosive Great War Adventures
10-Minute Escapes – The whole Short Story Collection
All 18 great stories – for when it’s time just for you.
Leigh’s website: www.LeighWBarker.com
