
“Of course, of course, we’ll leave you to it,” Iskanderon said.  The three started to 
leave, but Iskanderon paused, leaning on the wall of the carrel.  “Oh, thought you 
should know; rumor is that the Paladin himself is designing the course this year.”  He 
shot a final smile at Keric, and left before he could respond.
Keric only shook his head.  “Wonderful.”  He carefully rolled up the scroll he’d been 
working on, and put it along with the book he’d been using back amongst the pile.  He 
opened the scroll case, and glanced at the inventory in the lid before he drew out a roll 
of parchments of varied color and size.  Spreading them out to his left, he stared at 
them for a moment, then took the first one from the top and started to read.
* * * * *
Chapter 2
“Absolutely not.  I will not wear those… clothes.”
“Come on, man, it’s tradition!”
Keric’s expression soured at Iskanderon’s reply.  The taller man grasped a sleeve of 
the robe that Alis was holding up, and lifted the fabric to reveal the full intensity of the 
colored patterns woven into it.  “Well, it is a bit… bright, but this is what the public 
expects of magic-users, it fits the conventional image in the mind of the plebs.  And it 
helps the audience tell the competitors apart.  You know that you can hardly see 
anything through the Viewing Pool unless you have one of the closer seats.”
“It is ridiculous,” Keric said.  “And impractical; why, I don’t imagine I could walk ten 
steps in that without tripping.”
“Talith was a good deal taller than you,” Alis said.  “We adjusted it as much as we 
could, given the limited time-frame.”
“I’m just surprised that there isn’t a pointed hat to go with it,” Keric observed, dryly.
“What, you forgot the hat?” Iskanderon said to Alis.  At Keric’s scowl, he laughed 
and added, “Kidding!  I am only kidding!  Come on, all of the other competitors will be 
wearing similar finery.  You don’t want the scrolls to look drab by comparison.  Alis, talk 
to him, will you?  I need to make sure we don’t miss our mark for the introductions.  I 
saw the Paladin himself earlier, with all of the deans; it’s a full house for this year.”  His 
grin grew wider, if anything, as he headed to the door of the small changing room, 
leaving Keric and Alis alone.
“You know, he’s using you as much as he is me,” Keric said to her.
“Kander is…  well, he is what he is,” Alis said.  She held the robe up against him, 
confirming the size.  It would trail slightly on the floor, he saw.  “It’s really not that bad,” 
she said.
He looked at her suspiciously.  “You keep holding it up that way… what’s on the 
back, that you aren’t showing me?”
She maintained an innocent look for all of a second before she yielded and reversed 
the robe, revealing the design stitched into its back, a representation of a huge yellow 
parchment scroll, partially unrolled to reveal mystical-looking—but nonsensical, Keric 
saw—characters.
Keric raised an eyebrow.  The two shared another long look, and finally both 
laughed.
When Iskanderon returned half a cycle later, Keric was dressed, and was just 
buckling the wide leather belt that fit over the robe.  The oversized buckle was a 
mockery of the ones of real silver that actual mages wore, but it bore the sigil he hoped 
he would have the right to wear one day, an unrolled scroll that was far more tasteful in 
design than the garish decoration on the back of his robe.  But maybe Iskanderon was 
right; once he was in the Labyrinth, no one would be able to see small details through 
the Viewing Pool.
“Oh, good, you’re ready,” Iskanderon said.  “Come on, the other competitors are 
already in the staging area,” he said.  “It makes a good display to be the last to arrive, 
but if you’re late, the deans and their exalted guests won’t be happy.”
Keric picked up his scroll case, and lifted the thin leather supporting strap over his 
shoulder.  He started toward the exit, but Alis stopped him.  “Wait, is that yours?”
He looked back at the small leather wallet lying on the bench, and blushed.  “Ah, 
right.  My own scrolls.”  There were only four in his own cache, a few useful minor spells 
that he’d had handy, and one more substantive healing spell that he’d found time to 
write in between his other preparations for the competition.  He’d meant to add the 
contents of the wallet to the collection that Draef had provided, but in his hurry he’d 
forgotten.  He started to open the case, but Iskanderon forestalled him.  “No time for 
that, we’ve got to go now,” he said, taking Keric’s arm.  The young mage tucked the 
wallet under his robe, into the deep pocket sewn into his vest.
He was a bit nervous, but mostly he wanted to get this over with, so he could get 
back to the real work that mattered.  He wasn’t ambitious in the way that Iskanderon 
was, craving approbation and maybe even power and influence.  But the magic, that 
had won him early on, ever since his uncle had first worked spells in his presence.  He’d 
been just a boy then, and he now knew that Hule Olwyhn’s talents had been barely 
those of an apprentice, but at the time the magic had seemed wondrous and fantastic, 
something from another world that brightened the quite mundane one that he lived in. 
His passion for the magic was what had brought him here, and learning more, doing 
more, expanding his knowledge and his talent, that was what drove him.
Iskanderon was briefing him on details of past years’ competitions, but finally Keric 
interrupted him.  “Don’t worry, I’ve read the manuals by Dratek and Joranther on the 
Labyrinth, and I reviewed the commentaries on the last fifty runnings that are in the 
main archives,” he said.
“Come on, you haven’t had time to—”
“You chose him because he’s good,” Alis said.  She grabbed Iskanderon’s arm as 
they came to an arched doorway.  “We’ll need to hurry if we’re going to claim the seats 
that Draef was supposed to save for us.”  Her eyes gleamed as she looked at Keric. 
“You’ll do great,” she said, with that soft smile that had so entranced him back during 
their first year.
Then they were gone, Iskanderon flashing him a “V” salute as they left through the 
side door.  Keric turned back to the arch and took a steadying breath before stepping 
through.
His three rivals looked up as he entered the small waiting room.  He knew them by 
name and by reputation, and had been in a class or two with some of them, but this was 
their first true meeting.
“Well, look who finally decided to grace us with his presence,” Ashandra Hael said. 
She was the antithesis of Alis, tall and curvy, with lustrous black hair tied into a smart 
bun.  She wasn’t beautiful in the traditional sense, but there was nevertheless 
something striking about her, maybe in the way she pursed her full lips, or the 
permanent twinkle of amusement visible in her eyes.  She was dressed in an impressive 
ensemble that was more like a dress than a traditional robe, layers of dark cloth in 
shades of blue and violet that approached black.  She wore a wrap over her shoulders, 
and Keric didn’t need to see her back to know that it would be fashioned into the shape 
of a shield.  A similar design was visible on the silver buckle at her waist.  She carried 
no obvious foci that he could see, but he knew that the amulets used in her chosen field 
of magic would be hidden somewhere on her person.
“Ease off, Hael,” Trave Sarhus said.  He was the oldest among them, nearly thirty, 
and he carried himself with a calm confidence that seemed to be genuine, as far as 
Keric could discern.  His robe was infused with some sort of stiff laminate that shone 
brightly even in the relatively dim interior light; it would probably blaze like fire in the 
sunlight outdoors.  His buckle was crafted into the shape of a multifaceted gemstone, 
and he certainly would have an assortment of spelled stones in the pouches that 
dangled from his belt.  Keric had learned in his research that Trave had participated in 
three Labyrinth competitions; he had won outright two years ago, and had done well in 
each of the others.  He’d won his certificate seven years ago, but his reputation was of 
patience and methodical progress rather than procrastination, and it was widely 
accepted that he would pass his review board and become a full mage by the end of the 
current session.
The last member of the group came forward and offered his hand to Keric.  “Marthek 
Jarol,” he said in introduction, with a wide and open smile.
Keric took the hand and shook it.  Marthek’s grip was strong, but then it would be, 
given what he was.  The steel mage was dressed in the style of an ancient knight, a 
look that seemed in no way an affectation on him.  Marthek was tall and strong, broad-
shouldered, with a mane of golden hair that gave him the look of a legendary hero 
who’d just stepped out of a book or down from a tapestry.  He had a faint scar that ran 
from his left ear almost to his chin, but somehow that only managed to accentuate his 
rugged good looks.  He wore a golden breastplate imprinted with an engraving of 
crossed swords, the same symbol that was visible on his belt buckle, and a long cloak 
of matching cloth that looked almost like a tent was draped over his shoulders.  The 
weapon at his hip was a tallsword rather than the short, practical weapon used by the 
Border Wardens, and Keric didn’t need to touch it to know that it was spelled.
Keric’s eyes were drawn to the door in the far wall as the sound of a flourish of 
trumpets became audible from outside.  He couldn’t see through the windows that 
flanked the door, as thick curtains covered them, but Marthek nearly jumped as he 
turned toward the door.  “They’re starting!  It’s starting!”  Keric swallowed and rubbed 
smooth the front of his robe, and even Trave straightened, lifting his chin and adjusting 
his pouches.
“You’re like a litter of puppies,” Ashandra said, as she walked past them to the door. 
“Well, gentlemen?”
Keric was overwhelmed by the bright sunlight and the roar of noise from the crowd 
as he stepped through the door onto the open sward of the Quadrangle.  The temporary 
wooden bleachers that had been erected for the event were crowded full of people, and 
every window in the facing buildings was occupied, sometimes by three, four, or more 
people, some sitting on the sills facing outward.  Keric thought them foolish—they 
weren’t even nearly close enough to be able to see through the Viewing Pool—but he 
figured that the festivities of the event alone were probably excuse enough for most 
students to avoid work for one day.  He saw Iskanderon, Alis, and Draef on the edge of 
one of the bleachers, and returned their wave.  He followed his fellow competitors 
through the crowd to the space enclosed by the bleachers, where a small wooden 
platform had been set up.  He recognized the deans of the four schools of magic; Dean 
Zharis seemed to incline his head when his eyes met Keric’s, but it might have been his 
imagination.  All four loomed over the fifth person on the dais, who stood almost a head 
shorter than even the diminutive Dean Kalas of the gem mages, but the crowd quieted 
when he stepped forward.  Keric had never met Seris, but as he stood before the 
gathered multitude and addressed them, he thought he could understand how the 
famous Council mage had gotten his nickname.  Despite being short, squat, and utterly 
bald, there was a certain power to Sacreth’s most notable steel mage, and the name 
Paladin seemed to suit him utterly.
“Mages, competitors, students, guests,” the steel mage said, his voice booming 
through the Quadrangle, augmented by a minor spell.  “On behalf of the Mage Council 
and the faculty of the University, I welcome you to this year’s running of the Labyrinth.”
There was an outpouring of applause and eager shouts, and Keric was surprised to 
recognize a number of faculty members among those on the bleachers adding their 
approbation.  It seemed that no one was immune to the frenzy inspired by the Labyrinth 
competition.
He was so caught up in observing the crowd, he missed the next words from 
Paladin; he jumped slightly as his fellow competitors started forward, and hurried into 
place next to them facing the podium.
“The Labyrinth is a test not only of your magic, but of your wits, your skills, and your 
strength of will,” Paladin said.  For a moment his eyes met Keric’s, and the young mage 
felt a slight surge of power, almost as though his aura was being delved.  He blinked in 
surprise, and the moment passed.
“Competitors, take your places.”
Again Keric was in the rear as he followed the others to the left, where the Labyrinth 
waited.
He’d walked by the fountain dozens of times.  The water in the pool was still now, 
and the topper had been removed from the stone spigot in its center, leaving a cup-
shaped cradle almost an arm’s span across.  Resting in that cradle was the Labyrinth, a 
crystalline sphere that radiated a dim glow that was visible even in the bright sunlight.
Keric walked around the base of the pool until he came to his assigned position. 
Wooden planks had been laid on the edge of the pool at the four cardinal positions, 
each facing one of the four main buildings that fronted the Quadrangle.  The planks 
formed simple bridges to the center of the fountain, to the jut of stone that supported the 
Labyrinth.
For what seemed like a long time, Keric could only stare at it.  Here was magic, raw, 
potent, and old, very old.  He understood the basic theory of how it worked, and had 
read carefully the long passages in Joranther’s definitive study of the Labyrinth, but it 
was something else entirely to stand there looking at it, and to know that in a few 
moments, he would touch that magic personally.  No one had ever died from it as far as 
he knew, and injuries were rare within the Labyrinth, but he knew that all magic, even 
the most benign spells, always affected those who used it, and he wondered just what 
legacy this day would have for him.
He was so absorbed that he started in surprise as his rivals stepped up onto their 
bridges, and he hastily emulated them, nearly stumbling as the edge of his robe got 
caught under his foot.  That would really be a memorable start, he thought, the mental 
image of his overdressed self launching face-first into the Viewing Pool causing his face 
to go crimson.  But he recovered, and by the second step he’d caught up to the others, 
who approached the central sphere one step at a time.  He thought that it began to glow 
brighter as they drew nearer, but again it might have been an illusion; he could certainly 
feel its power now, but it wasn’t doing anything overt, just sitting there, waiting.
They paused directly in front of the sphere, close enough to touch it.  Keric felt a 
tingle as the preparatory spells were completed.  Paladin’s magic was quick and 
effective; there was no flash of light or tinkle of disembodied chimes, just a sudden 
wrenching that was gone as quickly as it arrived.  He looked down and saw that the 
surface of the pool no longer showed the reflected image of himself and the others on 
their makeshift bridges, but rather a vaulted chamber with floor and walls of gleaming 
white stone, lit by bright lamps that shone in diamond-shaped niches in the walls.  In 
just a few moments, it would show himself and his fellow competitors as well.
“Good luck to you, mages,” came Paladin’s voice.  Keric could no longer see him or 
the others; the sphere had brightened now, and it seemed to grow in front of him, filling 
his vision.
He closed his eyes, reached out, and entered the Labyrinth.
* * * * *
Chapter 3
As the competitors entered the Labyrinth, the crowd watching from the bleachers 
leaned forward to stare down into the Viewing Pool.  First-year students in plain tunics 
rushed forward to remove the crossing boards from the pool.  The Labyrinth crystal 
continued to glow, but dimly now, with faint patterns of light that seemed to trickle within 
its depths like currents of water.
A figure clad in a gray robe, its cowl up despite the heat of the day, emerged around 
the edge of one of the bleachers.  He walked bent over like an old man, and as he 
made his way toward the pool, one of the guardsmen on duty noticed him and stepped 
forward to block him.  The man made a gesture, and the guard froze.  Stepping past the 
paralyzed man, the robed figure threw off his garment and straightened, revealing a 
startling appearance to the gathered crowd.
He was lean and dark, his torso bare save for a harness of black leather that 
covered his chest and arms with interlocking strips.  His skin shone with a sheen of 
sweat, and was decorated with odd designs, tattoos that could not fully obscure the 
marks of dozens of scars that covered his frame.  His beard was narrow and trimmed to 
a point in the style of the Sokhali far to the south, and he wore a skullcap of battered 
metal that shone brightly in the intense sunlight.
A stir ran through the crowd as the newcomer turned in place, lifting his arms as he 
scanned the gathered folk before settling his gaze on the mages atop the platform.  The 
deans had risen to their feet as soon as he had appeared, and now watched him with 
expressions that ranged from surprise to anger.
“So-called wizards of Sacreth!” the intruder announced, his voice booming naturally 
without the aid of magic.  “I challenge the legitimacy of this competition!  Your leaders 
insult you with their weak and limited definition of magic!  They hide the truth from you!”
“And what truth is that, Kaavan Zorr?” Dean Corinther returned.  The elderly shield 
mage leaned against Dean Zharis for support, and his voice was feeble in contrast to 
the intruder, but the old man still carried an aura of power and authority about him. 
“Yes, we remember who you are, exile!  You dare to return here, with your forbidden 
arts and vile arguments?”
Zorr laughed.  “You fear what you do not understand, you old fool!  But I will show 
you, you and your charges, the next generation of mages.  I demand the right to 
represent my school of magic in your Labyrinth!”
Seris stepped forward, and where Corinther’s aura was one of stately dignity, the 
Paladin spoke with barely-constrained fire.  “Blood magic is forbidden in Sacreth, and 
with good reason!  When you were banished from the Valley Kingdom ten years ago, 
you were told that you returned only at your peril!  Guards, arrest him!”
A dozen guards had slowly closed a ring around the exiled mage while he had 
issued his challenge, and now they rushed forward to apprehend him.  But Zorr reached 
down and drew out a short curved knife from a hidden pocket.  The blade was only a 
few inches long, but the blood mage did not intend to use it as a weapon against the 
approaching men.  Instead he lifted an arm and drew the knife across his own flesh, 
opening a deep gash that sprayed droplets of blood as he swept the injured limb in a 
wide arc in front of him.  The guardsmen hesitated, just for a moment, but that was long 
enough for Zorr to work his magic.
Sinuous black tendrils snapped up like whips from the ground, emerging from the 
spots where the mage’s blood had fallen.  The guards cried out as the tendrils lashed 
around their bodies, twisting and tightening until they held them immobile.  Their clubs 
and staves had no effect on the tendrils, passing through them as though they were 
vapor, but when they touched flesh they were as tough as leather, constricting around 
the guards like serpents.
As cries of panic and alarm spread through the crowd, Zorr reached into a pouch at 
his hip and drew out a small object, which he hurled in the direction of the platform of 
notables.  The object, barely larger than a clenched fist, landed with a sick squelching 
sound on the compacted grass.  It glistened wetly there, a bloody heart, still quivering 
with some terrible animative force.
The ground shook, and something else erupted from the sward where the heart had 
fallen.  The huge tentacle dwarfed the black tendrils of Zorr’s earlier spell; this one rose 
a full ten strides into the air, and it was so thick around at the base that two men might 
have had difficulty touching hands around it.  It was covered in a mottled green hide that 
glistened with a rank slickness, and as the tentacle extended fully into the air, a bulb at 
its tip split open to reveal snapping jaws full of rending teeth.  A terrible noise issued 
from it, a challenge of destruction.
Men and women were fleeing in every direction, but on the platform, the senior 
mages held their ground.  The tentacle slammed down to crush them, but Dean 
Corinther lifted a golden amulet in the form of a shield, shouting defiance in the ancient 
language of magic.  As the amulet flared with light a golden aura sprang into being 
around the platform.  The tentacle hit that glow and rebounded, a hissing noise 
escaping from its jaws as it assaulted the barrier again without effect.
Paladin sprang forward.  He was unarmed, but as he leapt from the edge of the 
platform, he extended his hand toward one of the imprisoned guards.  The man’s sword 
shot out from its scabbard and flew unerringly into the steel mage’s hand.  The stout 
mage passed through the golden glow and dropped into a forward tumble as he landed, 
coming up next to the base of the huge tentacle.  The sword lashed out, and there was 
a ringing noise like the sound of a clapper striking a bell as the weapon tore deeply into 
the substance of the tentacle.  Black ichor hissed from the wound, but Paladin dodged 
the ugly spray, which burned the green grass that it touched to char.
The alien conjuration responded, the snapping jaws darting down toward the mage, 
but Paladin moved in a blur, and the bulbous head slammed onto vacant ground, the 
long teeth tearing vicious gouges in the sod.  The steel mage struck again, stabbing the 
sword deep into the rubbery texture of the tentacle, his face twisted with focus as he 
dragged the sword through it, tearing a ring around its girth.  More of the black ooze 
spurted out, searing his arm and shoulder, but he didn’t stop until he’d completely 
bisected the thing.  As he drew back the tentacle toppled over, almost crushing one of 
the bleachers, thankfully missing the few students that hadn’t yet fled the area.  It was 
already starting to dissolve as it hit the ground, and within a few heartbeats, it was gone, 
leaving only a smoking hole in the ground and the black marks on the grass to indicate 
it had ever existed at all.
The other mages had not been idle during the brief battle.  Even as the tentacle-
thing died, Dean Kalas triggered a spell-gem, the faceted stone flaring with light as the 
magic stored inside it was released.  The head of the school of gem magic directed that 
light in a beam that slashed across the field, doing no harm to the men it touched, but 
cutting through the black tendrils like an impossibly-sharp knife.  The guardsmen 
staggered back, free now but still wary of the blood mage.
Zorr lifted his bloody knife to unleash another spell, but even as he began his 
conjuration, Ayas, Dean of Steel Magic, launched her own attack.  She drew a small 
metal object from her belt, which snapped open into a tri-blade with wickedly sharp 
edges.  She threw the weapon with a smooth motion, and it spun in a curving arc that 
took it around several of the guardsmen, streaking unerringly through their circle until it 
caught the blood mage in the shoulder, one of the sharp prongs biting deep into his 
flesh.  The impact knocked Zorr off his feet, and he grunted as he landed hard on his 
back.
Dean Zharis had unrolled a scroll from the compact case attached to his belt, and he 
uttered the words of magic inscribed there, each rune flashing and disappearing as its 
power was triggered.  A cube fashioned out of glowing bars of light materialized around 
the fallen blood mage, imprisoning him within.
The guards approached the magical cage warily, but kept their distance.  They made 
room for Paladin as the short mage stepped forward.  Ugly black marks covered his 
arms and torso where the splatter from the conjured tentacle had burned away his tunic 
and scored his flesh, but he betrayed no hint of pain as he fixed a cold gaze at the fallen 
blood mage.
Zorr had reached up to grab the tri-blade, and with a groan tore it free from his 
shoulder.  His fingers were deeply gashed by the other blades in the process, but like 
the steel mage, he did not seem to feel pain in the same manner of other men.  Or 
perhaps, he had become inured to it.
Sensing the presence of the other, he stirred himself and rose, the bloody weapon 
still held in his hand.
“You would be wise to stay down,” Paladin said.  “A healer will attend to your 
wounds.”
“So you can hang me intact?  I think not.”  He laughed, a grim, nasty sound.  “I think 
that you Sacrethans still have a lot to learn about the true meaning of power.  You will 
pay for your hubris with the blood of your young ones!”
Paladin tensed, but when the blood mage lunged, he went not toward the steel 
mage, but against the far side of the cage.  He lifted the bloody hand still clutching the 
tri-blade, and as droplets of his blood hit the glowing bars they tore slashes in the 
barrier.  He struck the cage himself a moment later, and with a sizzling flash he tore 
through, staggering as he reached the far side.  The closest guards rushed toward him, 
but with another sweep of his bloody hands the men were flung from their feet, as if 
struck by a ram.  Paladin was already charging around the cage to block Zorr’s escape, 
but too late he realized that escape was not the mage’s intent.
Zorr leapt up onto the edge of the Viewing Pool.  Paladin lunged for him, but the 
blood mage was faster, and before anyone could intervene he plunged one of the tri-
blade’s bloody prongs into his chest, piercing his skin, the slender blade driving 
between two of his ribs and into his heart.  He toppled forward, landing with a splash 
into the water of the pool.
Paladin grabbed Zorr’s boots before he could drift out of reach, and with 
considerable strength dragged him clear of the pool.  A bright plume of red had already 
spread from his body, however, and as the steel mage watched, it continued to expand, 
roiling through the water like thunderclouds.  The other deans arrived at his side, but 
there was nothing they could do to stop the workings of the blood mage’s death-spell. 
The plume spread to fill the entire pool, dissolving until the waters cleared enough for 
them to see once more into the Labyrinth, their view still tainted by a faint tinge of red. 
The light from the crystal had dimmed, and the striations within pulsed erratically, 
almost as though something inside was trying to get out.
“What has he done?” Kalas asked.
“We have to get them out of there,” Zharis said.  Ayas and Kalas were already 
grabbing one of the discarded boards, and together they laid it down to form a bridge to 
the crystal.  Paladin jumped onto it as soon it was settled, and crossed to the sphere. 
He lifted a hand toward it, and incanted the spell that would release those inside.
There was a flare of light, and the mage staggered back, clutching his hand.  Paladin 
cursed and turned again to the crystal, but before he could try again, Corinther 
forestalled him.  “Do not bother, Seris.  The curse is too strong; even if you could 
overpower the ward, you would only disrupt the stability of the Labyrinth itself, and 
almost certainly risk the lives of our young mages along with it.”
“There has to be something we can do!” Kalas said, as Paladin retreated back 
across the bridge to join them.
“Corinther’s right,” Paladin said.  “We cannot cleanse the Labyrinth while people are 
inside it.”
“What about a counterspell?” Ayas asked.
Paladin nodded.  “Get as many of your senior mages here as you can, and we’ll 
need to send word to the Council as well.”  But as the five mages looked at each other, 
they each saw the same truth in the others’ eyes; even if they could undo the blood 
mage’s final spell, it would take time.  And time had suddenly become their enemy.
Zharis stared down at the scene visible through the Viewing Pool.  The portal was 
one-way only, and did not transmit sound.  He could see their charges, but couldn’t 
speak to them, couldn’t warn them of what was coming.  “Get out of there,” he 
whispered, willing them to hear him.  “Get yourselves out of there.”
* * * * *
Chapter 4
Keric groaned and sat up, holding his head, where it felt as though a gang of miners 
had gone to work on the inside of his skull with pickaxes.  “What happened?”
Whatever had affected him, the others were clearly feeling it as well.  He was the 
only one to have fallen down, but Ashandra was leaning against the wall, clearly relying 
on the stone for support, and Trave was on his knees.  Only Marthek was still standing 
unassisted, but even he looked decidedly unsteady.
“We’re in the Labyrinth,” he said, trying to ignore the pounding in his head.  Marthek 
offered him a hand, which he accepted gratefully.  The room swirled around him slightly 
as he stood, but he was able to stay on his feet without help.
“Where else?” Ashandra said.  With deliberation she stepped away from the wall, 
although she still looked pale.
Keric looked around.  The small foyer where they were standing looked like the room 
he’d seen through the Viewing Pool, but slightly… different.  The whitestone blocks that 
made up the walls were gray and dingy, covered with a thin film that might have been 
dirt or soot.  The lamps in the wall niches still shed light, but their flames were weak, 
fitful, struggling as though a faint gust might extinguish them completely.  The four 
archways that provided egress from the room also looked somehow off, although he 
couldn’t quite put his finger on the problem.  His eyes rose to the capstones above each 
arch, each marked with a different design that matched the symbols they wore on their 
belt buckles.
“Something’s wrong,” he said.
“There is always some disorientation when entering the Labyrinth,” Trave said.  “It is 
a byproduct of our bodies adjusting to the altered reality present within an 
extradimensional space.  But I have to admit, it was never this bad before.”
“Maybe the Paladin’s skills are overrated,” Ashandra said.  She turned toward the 
arch that bore the shield icon.  “We might as well get this business over with.”
“Maybe we’d better stay together,” Keric suggested.  “I know we’re supposed to face 
the challenges individually, but if there is something wrong…”
“If there was, wouldn’t they have pulled us out?” Ashandra countered.
Trave nodded.  “This could be part of the test,” he said.
“What do you think, Marthek?” Keric asked.
The golden-haired knight frowned.  “I don’t know.  I don’t like it, though.”
Ashandra let out a derisive snort.  “Well, you boys can huddle around here until 
mommy and daddy come to rescue you, but I still intend to win this thing.”  She seemed 
to have recovered her equilibrium fully, and even Keric could feel his headache fading. 
Before any of them could comment, she stepped forward and vanished through the 
arch.
Trave shrugged.  “The Labyrinth can be a rough experience, but it’s not lethal,” the 
gem mage said.  “Good luck, gentlemen.”  With a nod at Marthek and Keric, he walked 
through the arch that matched his sigil.
Keric looked at Marthek, who shrugged and did the same.  The scroll mage stood 
there alone for another few heartbeats, then took a steadying breath and turned to the 
arch meant for him.
The darkness of the archway gave way to a staircase of deep stone steps that 
descended in a slight curve.  He almost stopped to conjure a light, but then saw that 
there was a bright glow coming from the foot of the stairs.  He was almost fully 
recovered from his earlier disorientation, but he still made his way down slowly and 
carefully, with one hand on the inner wall.
As he approached the bottom of the staircase he could see that it culminated in a 
broad landing.  The walls were decorated with arcane symbols that looked almost as 
though they had been hacked into the stone.  He couldn’t decipher any of the symbols, 
but somehow they filled him with a vague sense of disquiet.  The glow originated 
through another open archway on the far side of the landing, where another, larger 
chamber could be seen beyond.
Keric stopped there at the base of the stairs, and opened his case of scrolls.  He’d 
already rearranged them in the most probable order he’d need them, so it only took a 
moment to withdraw the one he wanted.  Turning so that the glow from the chamber fell 
upon the writing, he incanted the spell stored upon the parchment.  Using a scroll 
scribed by someone else always felt different than his own work, with each mage’s 
magic feeling as distinct and unique as a fingerprint.  But the spell was one with which 
he was quite familiar, and it gave him no difficulty.  Within ten seconds he’d completed 
it, and he felt a tingling that spread across his body, sharpening until it was just shy of 
painful before it faded.  The warding was invisible, but he could feel it there, its power 
lying quiescent upon him until it was needed.  It would fade in a few hours in any case, 
but he hoped to be well clear of the Labyrinth by then.
He took out a second scroll and cast it as well, adding a warding for mental 
protection on top of the physical defense he’d just enacted.  That spell went easily as 
well, but as he triggered it he felt a sudden wave of disorientation sweep over him. 
Keric stood there and weathered it, breathing in deep and steady breaths until the 
dizziness faded.
With his wards in place, he started toward the arch.  The room beyond was not as 
big as he’d first thought, a square maybe six and a half strides on a side.  The glow 
came from bright globes set into the corners of the room just above eye-level.  Below 
them, Keric could see four stone pedestals that jutted from the walls like teeth.  Atop 
each pedestal was an irregularly-shaped piece of metal.  On the far side of the room 
was the apparent exit, a slab of stone of a slightly different color than the blocks that 
made up the walls.  There was a small round opening in the door, ringed with some sort 
of silvery metal, and something else beneath it, a marking or design that he couldn’t 
quite make out from across the room.
So his first trial would be a puzzle, then.  He started forward into the room, but 
hesitated in the archway.  Aware that he was being watched and judged, still he 
lingered there a moment, thinking.  Ashandra might be the sort to charge forward, 
trusting to her talent and her magic to keep her safe from whatever traps she triggered, 
but Keric had always been more deliberate.  It didn’t seem like the Labyrinth was the 
best place to change his habits.
Finally he drew back, and opened his scroll case again.  He paused again over the 
next scroll, considering his options.
Layering was one of the more intricate hazards of working magic.  Spells were 
extremely complex things, and even when they were designed to work in conjunction, it 
was very easy for even an experienced wizard to miscast a spell that was layered on 
another already in effect.  Keric had once successfully layered four spells, but they had 
all been his own work, and it had been in the controlled environment of a classroom at 
the University.  The magic of the Labyrinth itself wasn’t supposed to interfere with the 
workings of the wizards participating in the competition, but it was becoming 
increasingly clear to him that something was wrong, either by design or accident. 
Making assumptions in such circumstances was… dangerous.
But when it came down to it, he decided that he would rather take risks now, before 
he’d placed himself in the midst of a trial.  He took out a third scroll from the case, took 
a deep breath, and incanted the spell inscribed upon the parchment.
His head began to spin almost at once, even before he had finished the first line.  He 
completed the spell through sheer determination, but as the magic flashed around him, 
he staggered and nearly fell.  Only the cold hard stone of the archway supported him, 
and he clung to it for stability as the walls spun and distorted around him.  The bright 
glow coming from the room sent daggers of pain into his skull, and he closed his eyes, 
groaning as he fought through the pulsating waves of nausea.
After an interminable span of time had passed, he stirred and opened his eyes.  For 
the briefest moment he could not remember where he was, then memory and 
awareness returned in a sudden jarring surge.
Slowly he stood, keeping the fingers of one hand connected to the wall in case he 
needed the support again.  But he could stand, if a bit unsteadily.
The room on the far side of the arch was as it had been before, but its contents had 
slid into sharp detail.  He could now clearly see the markings in the door, and the 
narrow slit underneath them.  The round opening in the top of the door ringed by the 
silver metal was not a keyhole, as he’d first thought, but a spigot of some type, probably 
for the inevitable trap.  He still couldn’t make out the full details of the metal objects on 
the platforms in the corners, except that each appeared to be made out of a different 
metal, and they were cut into different patterns, flat disks with jagged edges like oddly-
spaced and sized teeth.
Keys, then.  No doubt if he slid the incorrect one into the door, something bad came 
out of the spigot.
There was something else, something that seemed wrong, but which he couldn’t 
quite identify at first even with the boost to his senses from the perception-enhancing 
Heightening spell he’d just cast.  The spell could cause some minor distortions, and with 
the combined effects of the layering and the odd problems with the Labyrinth, those 
could be expected.  But as Keric studied the room, he realized that when he quickly 
shifted his attention from one side of the room to the other, faint red trails were visible in 
his peripheral vision, glowing tracks that faded to nothing when he turned his full 
attention upon them.  Frowning, he studied the phenomenon for a minute longer, but did 
not learn anything further.
You’re procrastinating, he told himself.  He couldn’t gain anything more from 
standing in the doorway, so he turned to the nearest pedestal on his left and started into 
the room.
He’d been ready for just about anything, but he hadn’t expected the trap to trigger 
instantly; midway through his second step through the arch the spigot on the door 
flared, and a stream of fire shot unerringly across the room to engulf him in a violent, 
raging maelstrom of flame.
Keric fell back against the wall of the room as the flames roared over him.  He cried 
out as he huddled there, just for a moment, while panic nearly claimed him.  He couldn’t 
see, couldn’t feel anything except for a rising heat.  The thought of his skin charring to 
black finally shook him to action, and clutching the wall of the room he staggered back 
to the archway.  The flames followed him, and he could feel the heat beginning to sear 
his skin as his magical shield was overwhelmed.  With another cry he dove forward 
through the arch and rolled clear, crawling until he ran into the first step of the staircase.
He just lay there for a while, breathing in deep gulps of air.  The flames had stopped, 
but he could smell the acrid tang of char, probably from his clothes.  The skin on his 
back was raw and tender, but it could have been a lot worse; he had no doubt 
whatsoever that without his warding, the flame trap would have killed him.
Moving slowly, he rose to a seated position and checked himself over.  The ornate 
robe was a wreck, but at least it had offered some modicum of protection against the 
trap.  He stripped it off and tossed it aside.  It was a bit cool in just his vest and trousers
—an odd feeling after being nearly roasted alive—but he welcomed the freedom of 
mobility gained by discarding the robe.  Then he felt a momentary panic as he realized 
that his scroll case was gone.
He found it a moment later, just barely inside the archway.  His fears were confirmed 
as he picked it up.  The exterior of the case had been blackened with char, and even 
before he opened it and saw the damage to the seal he knew what he would find.
The scrolls themselves were mostly intact.  But even the slight crinkling on the 
edges of the parchments had been enough.  He checked each one just to be sure, but 
even before he unrolled them he could tell, could sense that the magic stored on them 
was gone, disrupted by the fire, or maybe by the magic of the Labyrinth, which he could 
no longer deny had somehow turned against them.
His Heightening spell was still in effect, sharpening his hearing, so he quite clearly 
heard the distant cry that echoed down from the staircase above.  The voice was 
familiar, as was the sound of pain and terror that filled it.  This time he didn’t take time to 
think, and was charging up the stairs even as the shout abruptly and permanently 
ended.
* * * * *
Chapter 5
Keric hesitated only briefly in the foyer where they had first arrived.  All of the arched 
exits were dark, but he knew where the shout had come from.  Wary now, he passed 
through the dark opening, into a tunnel that curved slightly ahead to the left.  Again he 
paused, and with a start remembered the scrolls he held in his wallet.  He reached 
under his vest; yes, it was still there, in his pocket.  He considered going back to the 
foyer to see if they were intact, but he remembered the pain in that shout he’d heard, 
and he hurried forward, one hand against the wall to guide him.
As the darkness deepened he again considered going back, if only to summon light 
before proceeding, but again a glow became visible ahead before it became too black to 
see.  The arch and the glow were almost identical to those he had encountered earlier, 
and he crept forward slowly, alert for another trap.
The room was similar, but the nature of the trial had clearly been different in this 
case.  The blackened wreckage of some sort of apparatus of metal and stone 
dominated the center of the room, with pieces of it strewn about the floor.  There were 
six doors in the wall, heavy constructions of wooden planks reinforced with banded iron. 
It was obvious which one the other mage had taken; Keric crossed the room—giving the 
destroyed construct a wide berth—and looked through the opening where the blasted 
door had stood.  A few fragments of wood still clung to the twisted pieces of metal that 
hung from the warped hinges, but the rest of the door was just scattered splinters and 
fragments of iron.  He was unsure whether the door had been destroyed by a trap or 
sundered by the wizard’s magic; the lingering aura there was so strong that he could 
almost taste it in the air, but there was no time to stop for a Delving, and little to be 
gained by it in any case.
A short, straight passage was on the far side of the broken door, progressing for 
maybe twenty strides before opening onto another room.  The walls and floor were 
plain, unadorned stone.  A limp form lay on the floor.  Keric hurried over to it, and pulled 
the body over to see Trave’s dead eyes staring up at him.
It was easy to see what had killed him.  The gash across his throat was deep, so 
deep that it had scored the bones of his spine.  It took an effort for Keric to examine the 
terrible wound, but once he did, he quickly realized what was wrong.  There was almost 
no blood.  The gem mage’s skin was pale, almost white, and while the interior of the 
wound was red, the separated skin bright like a twisted parody of open lips, the cuts 
should have unleashed a terrible spray as the primary vessels delivering and retrieving 
blood to and from the brain were opened.  It was almost like looking at a cadaver that 
had been meticulously prepared for study, and the young mage shuddered at it.
“What… what happened?”
The voice caused him to almost jump out of his skin, and he looked up to see 
Ashandra standing there, staring at him in horror.  He saw that she mastered herself 
quickly, gathering in the fear and thrusting it behind an iron mask of control.  She 
needn’t have bothered; he knew exactly what she was feeling, and didn’t even bother to 
try to hide the cold terror that clenched in his guts.
“He was murdered,” he heard himself saying.  Almost reflexively he scanned the rest 
of the body.  He wasn’t entirely surprised to find the gem mage’s pouches gone, along 
with the enchanted stones they had carried.
“Marthek?”
He stared at her for a moment before he realized what she was suggesting.  “That’s 
crazy.”
“His throat, it was slashed open.”
“Yes, but it was no ordinary weapon that did that.  The Labyrinth, there’s… there’s 
something here, something wrong here.”  That much was obvious; people didn’t die in 
the Labyrinth.  When a trial was failed, competitors were ejected, sometimes somewhat 
the worse for wear, but alive.  Its creators had built it as a testing tool, not some mad 
engine of torture.  There were some scholars who argued that you couldn’t die in the 
Labyrinth, and the archives were full of accounts of past competitions where mages had 
been ejected after daring and incredibly dangerous actions, daredevil stunts, 
uncontrolled eruptions of wild magic, and the like.  As far as he knew from all of the 
records he had studied, Trave’s death was the first such loss of life in the entire history 
of the Labyrinth.
He looked up at her, expecting a protest, but after a moment she nodded.  He 
noticed something else as well, and stood.  “You’re hurt?  What happened?”
Ashandra shook her head.  “Imps.  Conjured in my first trial.  They were… they were 
more violent than I had expected, caught me off guard.  I’m fine.”  She walked around 
him, to the other side of Trave, but couldn’t hide her limp, or the flecks of blood visible 
along the gashes in the skirt of her dress.  “I have a lesser Healing spell,” he said, and 
started to reach for his wallet.
“Save it,” she said.  “We may need it later.”
He nodded.  “We have to find Marthek.”  Ashandra didn’t look up, staring down at 
the body.  “Ashandra?”
She started and met his eyes.  “Right.  Yes, of course.  I… I’m sorry, Keric.  For 
doubting you, before.  You were right.”
“It doesn’t matter now,” he said.  “We have to find Marthek, and get out of here. 
Before whatever did that to him finds us.”
The two of them were quiet as they returned to the entry foyer and headed through 
the arch marked with the crossed-swords sigil of the steel mages.  There was another 
staircase on the far side, this one heading up.  Keric offered a hand to Ashandra, but 
she shook him off.  Her face was twisted into a grimace and her limp was getting worse, 
but it was clear that she was not going to accept his help.
“What happened to your robe?” she asked him, as they made their way up the stairs. 
Like the one Keric had taken down earlier, this one curved slightly as they ascended.
“Burned.  Fire trap.  It got most of my scrolls as well, I’m afraid.”
“What?  You didn’t have a shield up?”
“If I hadn’t had a warding, I wouldn’t be here now,” he shot back, defensive of his 
magic despite all that had happened.  They could see the glow up ahead now, and 
hastened their pace.
“Sorry,” she said.  “This is… this isn’t…”
“Don’t worry about it,” he said.  “We have bigger problems.”
The landing at the top of the stairs had the now-familiar arch, and the same small 
room beyond.  The signs of Marthek’s passage were immediately obvious.  The 
shattered remnants of several suits of armor were scattered around the floor.  From 
what Keric could tell from the wreckage, the suits had been occupied by mannequins of 
wood and straw.  And magic, most likely, automatons that had sought to block the steel 
mage’s progress.  With his enhanced vision he scanned the floor, looking for drops of 
blood or any other sign that Marthek had been injured.  He didn’t see anything, but he 
remembered Trave’s body, and remembered that he couldn’t make any assumptions 
here.
Ashandra crossed the room to the single exit, a recessed doorway warded only by a 
curtain of plain woolen cloth.  “What are you doing?” Keric asked.
“It seems likely that he went this way,” she responded.
“Be careful,” he said, hurrying over to her.  But by then she had already reached out 
and pulled the drape aside, revealing only another passage on the far side.
“I am not exactly defenseless,” she said.  But she was nervous, Keric could see that, 
despite her disciplined outward mask.
They made their way down the corridor.  After about twenty strides, they came to a 
short flight of steps that descended into a long hall.  The hall was narrow, only slightly 
wider than the passage, but it extended for a good thirty strides ahead, with a vaulted 
ceiling buttressed by massive arches of rough-hewn stone.  Lamps hung from niches 
along the walls, their flickering light more than strong enough to reveal the trial set here 
for them.
“Uh oh,” Ashandra said.
The floor was covered with a matrix of marble tiles, each about a pace across.  The 
tiles were covered with sigils, etched in streaks of color embedded in the stone.  Each 
sigil was unique, or at least it looked that way from their vantage; even with his 
enhanced sight Keric couldn’t quite distinguish those on the far side of the hall.  On the 
far side of the tiled floor, a matching stair led up to another passage that exited the 
place.
“Those sigils aren’t based on any magical nomenclature with which I am familiar,” 
Ashandra said.
“No,” Keric said.  Careful not to touch the nearest tiles, or even extend any part of 
his body over them, he knelt on the lowest step and studied them.  There was 
something familiar about them, something he couldn’t quite place.  He tried to make 
sense of the pattern of tiles, at least the nearer ones, looking for relationships between 
the sigils,
“Well, we’re going to have to try something,” Ashandra said, after Keric’s silence had 
extended for almost a minute.  “We can’t just stand here.”
Keric lifted a hand to forestall her, but didn’t look up.  “Marthek made it through here; 
he must have solved the pattern.”
“He’s a soldier,” Ashandra said.  “Maybe he just bulled through…”
“Wait,” Keric said.  “You’re right, he’s a soldier.”  He nodded as something clicked in 
his memory.  “These sigils… they have nothing to do with magic at all, they are military 
symbols, the sigils used by units in the army.  Historical, I think, back from the days of 
the great empires.”
“Military history is not exactly my strong point,” she said.  “I don’t suppose you know 
what they mean?”
“No, but Marthek did.”  Keric was already taking out his wallet, and he extracted one 
of his few remaining scrolls.  He spread it out on the flat top of the stone balustrade that 
edged the stairs, holding it down while he studied it.  He’d written the scroll himself, and 
knew the runes almost as well as he knew his own name, but what he would do here 
would require a bit of subtlety.
She glanced over his shoulder.  “What are you casting?”
“A lesser Delving,” he said.
She frowned, not understanding at first what he was doing, but knowing enough not 
to interrupt him further as he read the scroll and worked its magic.  Once again he felt 
the stabbing disorientation of the layering effect, but it was not as severe as before; the 
Delving did affect his perceptions, but the bulk of the magic was extended outward into 
his surroundings.
As he finished the spell, he closed his eyes and reached out with his mind.  After a 
few moments of concentration, he opened his eyes and stared out across the room.
At first, all he could see was red.  The subtle currents he’d detected on the edges of 
his perceptions before were bright and obvious now, tendrils of corruption that were 
visible everywhere: on the floor and walls, floating in the air, even seeping down from 
the ceiling like hanging vines.  He had to control a brief sensation of revulsion as some 
of them touched him; he couldn’t feel anything, of course, and they had to have been 
there since they’d entered the Labyrinth, but the sight still filled him with dread.
Ashandra noted his reaction.  “What is it?  What do you see?”
It wouldn’t do any good to share what the Delving had revealed to him, so he didn’t 
answer at once, focusing instead on the floor of the hall ahead.  It took intense 
concentration to filter through the red haze, but when he finally found the trail left by 
Marthek’s aura, the faint golden flickers made a clear path across the room.  If anything, 
the omnipresent red corruption made the path easier to follow, as the steel mage’s 
traces were bright and pure by comparison.
“I found it,” he said.  “The aural traces are still strong.  He must not be far ahead of 
us.”
He took a deep breath, and stepped onto the first tile indicated by the golden trail. 
Nothing happened, and he let out the breath with relief.  “Follow me, step exactly where 
I step,” he told Ashandra.
“Right behind you.”
They made it across without incident.  The pattern made by the military runes 
remained a mystery to Keric, but he realized that to Marthek they must have created 
some sort of map, a trail of history that led across the hall to safety.  He wondered what 
danger lurked under the other tiles, but decided that he could live with that mystery 
remaining unsolved.
Keric sagged against the balustrade on the far stairs.  His head swam from the effort 
of maintaining his concentration on the Delving for that long.  Ashandra touched his 
arm.  “Are you all right?”
He nodded.  “This isn’t… exactly… a casual walk… through the Quadrangle,” he 
said.
She managed a smile.  “No, not exactly.”
It took a supreme effort, but he straightened, pushing off from the balustrade.  Faint 
smears of red had been left on the stone where his hands had touched, but as the 
Delving faded, they slowly dissolved from his view.  He knew that the corruption that 
suffused the Labyrinth was still there, however.
“Come on,” he said.  “Let’s find Marthek.”
* * * * *
Chapter 6
They found the steel mage quickly enough.  The stairs that ascended from the 
marble hall gave way onto another passage, one that bent to the left around several 
turns, until the corridor should have twisted back onto itself.  The two mages shared a 
look, but they already knew that the Labyrinth didn’t obey normal rules, and there was 
no sense in wasting time pondering the impossible.
The passage jerked to the left once more, and ended in an arch that should have 
been a dead-end, or opened onto the corridor they’d just traversed.  Instead, looking 
through the arch revealed another spacious, brightly-lit chamber, divided into a foyer 
and a slightly higher annex on the far side, with six thick pillars separating the two.  A 
broad staircase led up to the annex.
Standing in front of the stairs was Marthek.
Ashandra and Keric could instantly see that something was wrong; the steel mage 
was standing awkwardly, as if he’d been frozen in mid-step.  A faint halo of light 
surrounded him, and as they looked up, they could see that the pillars were topped by 
glowing golden spheres, shining so brightly that they almost could not look at them 
directly.
“Paralysis field,” Ashandra said.  She took out an amulet from one of the hidden 
pockets in her dress.  “I should be able to get through, but I don’t know that I’ll be able 
to drag Marthek clear.”
“Hold on a moment,” Keric said.  He scanned the room, but it was difficult to see with 
the brilliant light of the spheres filling the room.  He took out one of his last scrolls, but 
instead of opening it to read, he kept it rolled, and looked through it.  With the glare of 
the globes thus reduced, he could see that there was another arched exit on the far side 
of the chamber, in the rear of the raised annex, and something else as well; a lever 
jutted from the wall near the arch.
“There,” he said, handing the scroll to Ashandra so that she could see it.  “A 
triggering mechanism, I believe.”
“Well then,” she said.  “I’ll just go over there and deactivate it.”
“And if your ward cannot withstand the field?  Then there are two of you trapped.”
“And your alternative idea?  Unless you have a scroll of telekinetic manipulation in 
that wallet there.”
“You know that I do not; no student could manage such a working.”
“Then it is up to me.”  Her expression softened slightly, and she reached out a hand 
to touch Keric’s arm.  “Trust me; when it comes to this sort of thing, I do know what I’m 
doing.”
He nodded.  The shield mage affixed the amulet to the front of her dress, directly 
beneath her throat.  She touched it with the index fingers and thumbs of both of her 
hands, closed her eyes for a moment, and incanted a brief triggering phrase.  Keric’s 
Delving had faded, but he could still perceive the subtle shift to her aura, and could feel 
how strong the warding was.
But as she stepped boldly forward into the room, he wondered if it would be enough.
The golden glow that held Marthek captive erupted around her before she’d covered 
three steps into the room.  Faint at first, it steadily brightened with each step she took, 
until a golden nimbus shone around her, an echo of the light radiating from the spheres 
above.  Ashandra kept walking forward, passed Marthek without slowing, reached the 
steps leading up to the annex.  There she faltered, stumbling slightly on the steps.  The 
glow was pulsing at her now, battering at her defenses, and Keric could see the 
physical reaction; the shield mage was bending low, as though a heavy weight was 
being dropped onto her shoulders, and she raised her arms above her head as if to 
protect it from the deluge.  Keric wanted to shout encouragement, but knew better than 
to distract her; all he could do was watch and hope.
Ashandra reached the top of the stairs and staggered forward into the annex.  A 
deep, guttural sound came from her throat, and she drifted right, then left, nearly losing 
her balance.  Golden flashes exploded around her, obscuring her from view, then Keric 
heard a furious yell of defiance, and the light abruptly died.  He felt a momentary surge 
of panic as darkness surrounded him; the image of Trave’s dead body filled his 
thoughts, and he could imagine who or whatever had killed him coming for him, striking 
him down before he even knew it was there.
“Ashandra?” he asked, tentatively.
“Light,” came a tired voice in response.  The voice belonged to Marthek, not 
Ashandra, and in response a dim glow appeared around the steel mage, the illumination 
coming from his drawn sword.  The steel mage’s face was lined with exhaustion, but he 
held the blade up proudly, and its tip did not waver in the slightest.
“Ashandra,” Keric said, rushing toward the far exit.  Marthek followed, and as the 
light from his sword spread, they could see the shield mage slumped against the wall 
under the lever.  Keric felt a momentary stab of fear before she stirred her head and 
looked up at him.
“Remind me not to volunteer to do that again,” she said.
“Are you all right?  Can you stand?” Keric asked.
“I don’t quite know,” she said.  This time she accepted his hand, and did not shrug 
off his steadying grip once she was back on her feet.  She nodded at Marthek.  “How 
are you, soldier?”
“I will survive.”  He looked them over, taking in their condition with a single weighing 
glance.  “I take it that the Labyrinth has been cheating with you as well,” he said. 
“Where is Trave?”
“Dead,” Keric said.  “We found his body near the entry.”
“Dead?  Then this contest has become one of survival.”  The young steel mage 
seemed to take strength from the realization, standing straighter, the brightness of the 
glow coming from his sword intensifying slightly.
“I think that whatever is corrupting the Labyrinth, it is getting stronger,” Keric said. 
“We need to find the way out, and quickly.”  He looked at Ashandra.  “Can you 
continue?”
“I guess I’d better, no?”  She turned to the exit.  “Let’s get going.”
The next passage started like all the others, but after a short distance it became a 
spiral ramp that descended at a manageable but definitely noticeable angle.  They 
stayed close together, for the reassurance of proximity as much as for physical support. 
Marthek’s light gave them enough illumination to see by, though there was not much to 
see, except for the unadorned and smooth stone of the walls and floor.  They were alert 
for another trap, though, knowing that even an instant’s warning might be the difference 
between life and death.
But no traps or other hazards materialized, and the slant of the passage leveled out 
before it straightened and deposited them into a vast chamber.  They walked through 
the arch into a cavernous hall, dominated by a dome of white marble that stretched a 
good fifty strides from one side to the other, its peak easily that high above them. 
Alcoves along the walls were occupied by statues of robed men, decorated with fringes 
of colored cloth that rose almost to the rim of the dome above.  The floor space was 
dominated by a large tiered gallery, full of ranks of cushioned benches, and a rostrum in 
the center where a speaker would dominate the attentions of those gathered.  There 
were numerous exits, huge vaulted arches that one might have driven a wagon through, 
and small side doors that blended almost invisibly into shadowed crevices along the 
walls.
The place was empty, sepulchrave, a vast and quiet tomb.
“The Hall of Order,” Keric said.  “This is the Mage Council’s chamber.”
“Seems bigger than I remember,” Ashandra said.  “Of course, it was full of arguing 
mages at the time.”
“This… this cannot be!” Marthek said.
“Of course it can be, and it is,” Ashandra said to him.  “We’re in the Labyrinth, 
remember?”
The steel mage flushed and lowered his eyes, abashed at his own outburst.
“So I wonder what we have to face here,” Ashandra said.  “Maybe the Mage Council 
will appear and we have to kill them to get past?  That would have a certain appeal, I 
would admit.”
“You speak of treason,” Marthek chided her.  She rounded on him, but before an 
argument could begin, Keric stepped between them.  “I think the exits are the test,” he 
told them.  “Look.”
The mages stared at the varied routes out of the chamber.  At first they saw nothing; 
the corridors beyond the great arches were deep in shadow, but that was not unusual in 
and of itself.  But after a moment, they recognized what Keric had seen; each exit, from 
the arched corridors to the small doorways, was covered with a faint, hazy film, an aura 
of distortion that was just barely visible.  Once they’d seen it, though, they could feel the 
slight tingle of contained magic.
“So which way do we go?” Marthek asked.
“If we wanted to get out of the building, the fastest way would be the main doors,” 
Ashandra said, pointing to the double doors on the far side of the room.  If this had been 
the real Hall, those doors would lead to the Great Foyer, and then out into the central 
square of Sacreth beyond.  She had actually taken a step in that direction before Keric 
stopped her.
“Wait,” he said, turning to a small, almost invisible opening in the side of the room 
opposite the rostrum, nearly hidden behind the outermost tier of seats, under a subtle 
arch that was barely defined from the surrounding stone.  “That’s it.  The Petitioner’s 
Arch.”
Ashandra nodded.  “The gateway that every one of us must go through, to present 
themselves before the Council and be admitted to the ranks of Sacreth’s wizards.”  She 
looked at Keric.  “It’s the other entrances that are used by mages, ambassadors, people 
with wealth or power.  Even the most humble citizen can use the front doors.  The 
petitioner comes in through the little side door, to remind her of the importance of 
humility.  I think you’re right, it would be just like Seris to make that the test.”
“Come on, we can get to it by cutting through the chamber,” Marthek said.  He 
started forward, but the others had barely taken their first step when a noise drew them 
up short.
The sound startled them, disturbing the silence of the vast empty chamber as it did. 
It was a sick, wet sucking noise.  Its source was close, and getting closer.  The three 
mages drew back reflexively from the sound, which seemed to come from one of the 
arched corridors on the far side of the room, along the route that would take them to the 
Petitioner’s Arch, and the way forward.
When the source of the sound finally appeared, emerging through the archway into 
view, each of them felt a cold terror in their guts.  Trave’s killer had finally found them.
It was roughly the size and shape of a man, but at that all similarity between 
themselves and the entity ended.  Its skin was a glistening red mess the color of freshly 
spilled blood, its features amorphous, lacking anything even as remotely familiar as a 
mouth or eyes.  Its arms ended in slightly curved blades, and as it stepped closer, they 
could see that with each tread a splatter of viscous gore was splashed upon the floor. 
The sucking noise came when it lifted a foot; the substance, even the bits that had 
separated from the creature, followed it, parting from the white stone to be reabsorbed, 
leaving only a vaguely discolored mark in its wake.
“By Neva’s grace,” Ashandra gasped, her skin almost as pale as the white marble 
walls of the great chamber.
Squelching with each step, the blood golem approached the three mages.
* * * * *
Chapter 7
“Go around, I will hold it off,” Marthek said, lifting his sword.
“We won’t abandon you!” Ashanadra said.
“Go!” the steel mage yelled, as he stepped forward to engage the thing.  He raised 
his sword in salute, then sidestepped smoothly as it lunged at him, one of the arm-
blades coming around in a vicious slice.  The blood golem was fast, pivoting into a 
sweep attack with its other arm, but Marthek met it with an expert block.  His sword cut 
through the substance of its body, severing the end of the blade from its arm.  The 
glistening hook landed on the floor with a sick plop.
Ashandra and Keric had hurried around the rostrum, but before they could make a 
run for the exit, the blood monster shifted back to block their path.  The two mages 
retreated, but the creation did not come after them, apparently content to keep them 
from safety.
Ashandra held another amulet, but she did not trigger it, clutching the small bronze 
disk with white fingers.  “What can we do?” she asked.
Keric was too terrified to respond.  He had pulled out his wallet of scrolls almost by 
reflex, but neither of the minor spells he had left seemed like they would stop such a 
thing.  Still, he pulled out the one spell that might even have a chance.  The spell went 
by different names; most mages simply called it the Stunner.  It operated by overloading 
the target’s nervous system for up to a minute, rendering an enemy incapacitated 
without inflicting permanent damage.  But while Keric was no expert on magical 
constructions such as the blood golem, he had a pretty good idea that the thing lacked 
the biology that would leave it vulnerable to such magic.
Marthek came forward again to meet the golem.  The construct spun to meet him, 
swinging with its remaining blade at his head.  The steel mage again met the attack with 
a solid parry, and again the substance of the golem parted, and its remaining blade fell 
to the floor.  The golem withdrew a step, but Marthek stayed with it.  He brought his 
sword up and with a fierce yell drove it down into the golem’s body.  The blade flashed 
as it bit into the thing, cutting from the side of its “neck” down to where its heart would 
have been, had it been a living creature.  There the steel stopped, caught in the dense 
substance of the golem.
Marthek’s lips twisted into a growl as he tried to draw his weapon free.  The sword 
quivered, but then runnels of blood flooded out in a torrent down the length of the steel. 
Marthek’s eyes widened and he released the hilt, but tendrils of the stuff shot out and 
wrapped around his fingers and wrist, holding him to the creature.
“Marthek!” Ashandra yelled.
The steel mage pulled hard, and the bloody strands lengthened, stretching like gobs 
of rubber.  But he could not get free of them, nor could he do anything to evade as the 
golem’s arm lashed out again, its end lengthening again into a blade edge that struck 
him hard in the elbow.  The blow severed the young mage’s arm, which snapped back 
into the blood golem’s body, sticking there with a soft sick noise.  Marthek cried out and 
fell onto his back, clutching at the severed limb with his good hand.  There was no 
blood.  He stared up at the golem with eyes wide with horror, and watched as his arm 
was absorbed into its body.  His sword still jutted from its torso, but it was now covered 
from pommel to tip with a sheen of glistening red, completely engulfed by the golem’s 
substance.
The golem took a step forward, and the gob of its matter that Marthek had severed 
earlier stretched out and was reabsorbed into its body.
Ashandra rushed forward to block it, a bright silvery glow flaring into being around 
her hand as she triggered the power of her amulet.  “Back, fiend!” she yelled at the 
golem, trying to protect the fallen mage.
Marthek tried to stop her, but he could barely roll over onto his belly, let alone get up. 
“Asha, no!” he shouted, reaching uselessly with his remaining hand, but she ignored 
him, thrusting the bright glow of her shield spell at the construct.  It slashed at her with 
its blade, which carved into the aura like a steel knife scraping on flint; showers of 
sparks flashed from the contact, and Ashandra staggered, her protective aura flickering 
as her magic was disrupted.  The golem gave her no chance to recover; it stepped 
forward, lifting both arms above its head, their ends coming together to form a dense 
bludgeon shaped like the head of a hammer.  It swung hard, and with the impact the 
shield mage’s spell collapsed with a thunderous reverberation.  Ashandra was flung 
backward, flying several paces through the air before she slammed into the rostrum. 
She hung there against the stone for a moment, dazed, then collapsed onto the floor.
Marthek tried to crawl away, but the golem moved forward after him, absorbing its 
other severed “hand” as it went.  Its arms separated and again formed into blades, 
longer and curved into nasty hooks, this time.  It followed Marthek, in no apparent hurry 
now.
Keric had been dimly aware of the battle taking place in front of him, but he could do 
nothing to help Marthek, or to prevent the golem from striking down Ashandra.  He was 
caught in a battle of his own, as he struggled against the waves of surging magic that 
permeated and corrupted the Labyrinth.
He’d realized that the stun spell written on his scroll would do nothing against the 
golem.  But as he’d begun reading the runes inscribed upon the parchment, runes he 
had written, he’d changed the spell.
What he was doing was incredibly dangerous, forbidden even of sanctioned mages, 
and with good reason.  All mages drew magic from the world around them when they 
prepared their spells, and a small trickle from themselves, an anchor that allowed them 
to bind the magic to their focus of choice, to store it until it was needed.  The very best 
mages could bind a spell that would remain potent in perpetuity, although there were 
few alive in Sacreth today with such skill.  Magic was in and of the world, a bottomless 
wellspring limited only by the skill and personal fortitude of the wizard tapping it.
But there was a reason that spells were confined in objects, and constrained to very 
specific parameters.  A mage who drew too deeply from that wellspring, or who tried to 
draw without the benefit of a focus, was just as likely to burn himself out as to shape the 
magic to his desire.  Keric had had this message battered into him by his instructors: 
raw magic was like a sword that had points at both ends.
He knew that, and had no guidance other than instinct as he rearranged the order of 
the sigils as he read them, shifting the inflection, unraveling the complex and delicate 
web he’d created when he’d written the spell.  He changed it only slightly, a subtle 
difference, drawing upon the magic that infused the Labyrinth to augment his spell.
Almost at once he felt it surrounding him, a corrupted torrent.  He felt sick, and 
nearly lost the spell.  He imagined that he could feel the thick tendrils of red taint 
twisting around him, passing through him, leaving marks upon his soul like the greasy 
slicks left by a gusher of black oil spurting from the ground.  He knew that he could not 
long retain his grasp upon the spell, so he completed it as quickly as he could, 
summoning every bit of stamina that he had left and adding to it the energies he’d 
stolen, combining the whole into a single massive blast that he hurled at the golem.  As 
the magic fled he felt as though he’d come up from the bottom of a lake, life flowing 
back into him like that first sweet breath of air.  He slumped to his knees, and quite 
nearly fell further.
It took a great effort to look up.
The golem was splattered against one of the tiers of the hall, the gooey mass of its 
substance trickling over a row of benches, soiling the expensive cushions.  The sight of 
it filled him with exultation; the spell had worked!  A sound that was half laugh, half 
groan escaped his lips.  He tried to get up; his head spun, but he was able to stagger to 
his feet.  Marthek had crawled nearly over to Ashandra, who was stirring, coughing as 
she tried to suck air into her bruised lungs.
He started toward them, but managed only one step before he froze.  He’d heard 
something, a subtle noise, a small squelching pop that chilled his blood.  He turned his 
head slowly, knowing already what he would see.
The shattered mess of bloody gore that had made up the golem was scattered over 
the stone and wood of the tier, but at its core were several dense gobs of material. 
Those gobs were quivering, and as Keric watched, he saw the scattered splatters begin 
to shift and move, slowly extending to absorb or be absorbed into larger masses 
nearby.  Slowly it was coming together again, gradually taking on form as it 
reconstituted itself.
Action replaced conscious thought, and he ran over to Marthek.  The steel mage had 
reached the edge of the rostrum, and was using it to try and pull himself up, without 
much success.  Keric grabbed him and lifted him, holding him against the weathered 
stone base of the platform.  “We have to get out of here!” he said, making sure that he 
would stay up before turning to help Ashandra.
But the shield mage was already getting to her feet.  Keric saw her tuck a small 
crystal vial, now empty, into her sleeve.  She was battered and unsteady, but was 
standing on her own power, and she seemed to grow stronger with each passing 
second.  “Help me,” she said, pushing past him to take one of Marthek’s arms.  Keric 
took the other, all too aware that it ended at the elbow.  Blood was finally starting to 
ooze from the terrible wound, but it seeped sluggishly, smearing on Keric’s hands as he 
helped Ashandra carry the crippled mage toward the Petitioner’s Arch.
Behind them they could hear the noises of the golem growing steadily louder behind 
them, but neither looked back.  Marthek was trying to help them, but his limbs fumbled, 
and he could not manage to get his feet under him.  The other two mages all but 
dragged him through the arch, then Ashandra pushed the steel mage into Keric’s arms.
“Get him as far away as you can,” she said, turning back toward the hall.
“You can’t fight that thing!” Keric said, his voice on the thin edge of panic.
“I’m not going to fight it,” she said, taking another amulet from a pocket in her dress. 
No, it was two amulets, he saw, as she pulled the thing apart with some effort.  They 
were lodestones, and she attached one piece to either side of the arch.  The arch was 
made of stone, not metal, but the black stones stayed where she put them, and she 
began focusing on them, lingering in what Keric recognized as preparation for a spell.
“It won’t stop—” Keric said again, but Ashandra cut him off.  “Damn it, setting up a 
resonance on the fly is hard enough without you chattering at me.  Get him as far away 
as you can, now!”
Keric took up Marthek and dragged him down the passage.  In the real Hall of Order, 
the passage on the far side of the Arch led to a small cloakroom within ten paces, but 
this one stretched on for what seemed like an eternity.  With the limp burden of the steel 
mage and his armor dragging him, Keric felt as though he was trying to push a boulder 
up a hill.  He glanced back to see Ashandra still in the archway, still working her magic. 
He could see the effects of it now, a visible distortion that stretched between the two 
lodestones, filling the opening, a haze in the air that vibrated and wavered like the 
surface of a wind-swept pond.  There was something else, too, a red outline that grew 
until it nearly filled the arch.
“Ashandra!” he yelled.
The shield mage reached out and touched the distortion, provoking a violent 
reverberation.  The stones of the arch started to shake, and a high-pitched whine that 
was just short of painful filled the corridor.  Keric turned, shielding Marthek with his 
body, as Ashandra ran toward them.  The explosion, when it came, was almost an 
anticlimax.  The shock wave knocked him down, but not roughly, and it was almost easy 
to slide over the rest of the way, and drift off into oblivion.
* * * * *
Chapter 8
“Keric.  Keric, wake up.”  
The voice drew him the rest of the way back to consciousness, but it brought pain 
with it.  His whole body hurt, but those aches could almost be forgotten against the 
throbbing that filled his skull.  Falling back into the black seemed like a wholly preferable 
option, but he forced himself to open his eyes and sit up.  He was surprised that he was 
able to manage that, but once he was fully awake the pain receded to a more or less 
manageable level.
Ashandra was crouched over him.  She looked to be mostly intact, if somewhat the 
worse for wear.  Her dress was torn and singed in a few places, and her hair was 
scattered in a wild halo around her face, but her eyes were bright and alert.  Marthek sat 
against the wall opposite, conscious but obviously in distress.  He cradled the stump of 
his ruined arm, wrapped in a hasty bandage, in his remaining hand.
“Where are we?” Keric asked, looking around.  They were in a passage of unmarked 
stone.  Ashandra had summoned a light from a silver pendant dangling from a chain 
around her wrist, but its glow didn’t extend more than a few paces down the tunnel to 
either side.  The darkness seemed malevolent, expectant, and Keric quickly looked 
away. 
“We’re in the tunnel on the far side of the Petitioner’s Arch,” she said.  “Don’t you 
remember?”
“How long… how long was I unconscious?”
“Just a few minutes.  The blast from the disrupted resonance nearly knocked me out 
as well.”
He nodded.  “The blood golem?”
She glanced over her shoulder, and when she looked back there was a haunted look 
in her eyes.  “I collapsed the passage,” she said.  “If it could get through, I suppose it 
would have already.”
“We can’t assume that there isn’t another way around,” Keric said.  “We need to find 
the exit.  Help me up.”
Ashandra nodded.  Once he was back on his feet, both of them looked down at 
Marthek.  “You said you had a healing spell, earlier,” Ashandra said.
Marthek didn’t look up.  “Better to just leave me,” he said.
Keric knelt beside the stricken man and took out his wallet, and the last precious 
scroll inside.  “I can’t replace your arm, but I can restore some strength, and maybe 
counter some of the effects of what that thing did to you.”
Marthek looked as though he would protest, but finally he closed his eyes and 
nodded.  Keric unrolled the scroll, and gestured for Ashandra to hold her light close by. 
The spell gave him no difficulties, and as the soft blue glow faded from the scroll and 
spread into the body of the steel mage, he sighed and relaxed incrementally.  When 
Ashandra and Keric helped him to his feet, he was able to remain standing on his own 
power. 
“Thank you,” he said.  “Give me… a moment,” he said, taking a few tentative steps 
back down the passage.
“He needs immediate attention from a senior healer, and quickly,” Ashandra said 
quietly.  “That thing hurt him, but more than that, it’s this place, it’s affecting us 
somehow.  I can feel it.”
Keric nodded.  “That was an illegal stimulant in that vial, wasn’t it?  Tarrenbar, or 
white lotus extract…”
“Naetha,” she said.  “It was naetha, if you must know.  Unfortunately I had only the 
one dose, or I would share it with both of you.”
He must have betrayed his revulsion in his expression, for she laughed grimly and 
shot him a hard look.  “Had I not used it, none of us would be here right now.”
“But the degenerative side effects—”
“Only develop upon repeated and excessive use,” she responded.  “You are in no 
position to judge me,” she added, nodding at his arms.
Keric looked down, and saw that his bare skin was streaked with faint smears of red. 
At first he thought it was Marthek’s blood, from when he’d carried him earlier, but with a 
dawning realization he reached up and touched his face.  He could feel the slight 
stickiness on his fingers even before he looked down at them.  He already knew that he 
would find no cuts or gashes on his skin.  Neither of the others bore such marks.  They 
were the physical remnants of the magic he’d unleashed in the desperate battle against 
the blood golem.  The marks of a blood mage. 
“I suppose if someone is still watching, we’re both finished as wizards,” she said, 
handing him a small kerchief from a pocket.  “I wanted to win this before.”
“And now?”
“Now, I just want to live.”
Marthek rejoined them, a bit steadier on his feet.  He let Ashandra take the lead as 
they resumed their trek down the tunnel.  It went on for what seemed like forever, and 
they were all breathing heavily by the time that they finally saw a light ahead.
The passage opened onto a large oval chamber.  A small stair of three broad steps 
led down to the level of the floor in front of them.  The room was lit by lamps recessed 
into the ceiling, providing a vague but sufficient illumination.  Keric could see at least 
four other exits, all on the near side of the room, and all at different levels, from one 
passage mouth at least ten feet above the floor, accessed by a ladder of iron rungs, to a 
deeply recessed opening in the floor that had the look of a cave mouth.  The plethora of 
routes into the chamber made him nervous, and he quickly joined Ashandra in crossing 
the room.
The floor in the center of the chamber descended via more steep tiers to culminate 
in a deep bowl.  The stone on the far side of the depression was carved into a slender 
flight of stone steps that connected its bottom to their level, then continued up to a 
raised platform that filled the narrowest part of the chamber opposite.  The ascent was 
steep enough so that a man atop the platform might feel a sense of vertigo looking over 
the brink; certainly the drop was enough to break bones if one misplaced a step.
Their eyes were drawn to something in the center of the bowl, situated just a few 
steps from the bottom of the stairs.  A crystal orb lay in a broad stone basin, flashing 
slightly in the diffuse glow from above.  The orb looked like a smaller version of the 
Labyrinth crystal.
“Come on,” Ashandra said.  She moved carefully around the perimeter of the bowl to 
the stairs, but hardly slowed there, taking the steps quickly down to the bottom in front 
of the basin.
Keric and Marthek followed more slowly.  The scroll mage paused at the juncture of 
the steps, and peered up toward the top of the platform.  He could now see what had 
been hidden in shadows before; one last arch, this one black and empty.
“It’s the way out,” he said to the others.  “It must be.”
“This must be a trigger of some sort,” Ashandra said, moving around the basin to a 
spot where she could easily reach the crystal.
“Be careful, it may be corrupted in some fashion,” Marthek said.  The steel mage’s 
color was much improved since Keric had healed him, but as he reached the bottom of 
the steps he slumped against the edge of the bowl, exhaustion drawing hard lines 
across his features.
“I am just going to test it,” Ashandra said.  She looked at Keric, who had descended 
halfway down the steps.  As he nodded, she reached out and gently placed both hands 
upon the crystal. 
He could not tell exactly what she was doing, but he could see the look of 
concentration deepen on her face, and suspected she was doing exactly what he would 
have done; Delving into the magic.  He hoped that whatever test Seris had placed here 
for them could be overcome with their innate talents; his own spells were all gone, and 
he doubted that Ashandra had much magic of her own in reserve. 
But even as the thought crossed his mind, the sphere began to glow from within, 
casting the shield mage’s features into stark relief.  He could see the beads of sweat 
glistening on her brow as she continued to focus upon the crystal, activating its magic. 
The glow spread across the bowl, and he only belatedly realized that it was being 
matched by another radiance behind him.  He turned and looked up the stairs, and saw 
that a brightness matching the light coming from the crystal had appeared within the 
arch.  It grew steadier until it formed a sheer plane, a shimmering opening, a portal back 
to their own reality.
“You did it!” Keric said.  “Come on, we’ve got to get out of here before—”
But his words died even as Ashandra released the sphere; the light instantly faded, 
along with the portal within the arch.
“I can’t… I can’t keep it open,” she said.  “It should… there’s something there, 
something pushing against me.  It slammed the door as soon as I released it.”
Keric stepped forward.  “Let me try,” he said.
“No.  You have to get him out of here,” she said, nodding toward Marthek.  The steel 
mage tried to protest, but she ruthlessly cut him off.  “You can’t even stand, let alone 
manage something like this,” she said.  She shifted her eyes toward Keric.  “The same 
goes for you.  I could barely manage it, even with the naetha in my bloodstream, and 
you look like you’re going to fall down at any moment.”
He stepped forward.  “There has to be something, a way that we haven’t thought of, 
to keep it open…”
“Save it,” she said.  “We don’t have time—”
As if on cue, a sound interrupted her.  A terrible, familiar sound.
“It’s coming!” Marthek said.  He surged to his feet, but almost as quickly fell, 
groaning as he collapsed onto the steps.
Keric met Ashandra’s gaze.  “Go,” she said.  “Go.”
He tore his eyes away from her as she turned back to the crystal orb.  He grabbed 
onto Marthek, pulled him to his feet.  He didn’t look back as he dragged the semi-
conscious mage up the stairs, nearly falling with each step.  Ahead of them the glow 
from the arch began to shine again.  And behind… behind he knew what was coming, 
could see it in his mind almost as clearly as if he’d stopped to look.  He could sense the 
eagerness of the entity to stop them, to absorb their blood as it had taken Trave’s, and 
had started with Marthek’s.
As it would take Ashandra’s.
He almost stopped there, at the top of the steps.  The glow had spread and 
steadied, the portal open once more, though its light was tentative, its edges flickering 
within the boundary of stone.  Marthek groaned and tried to pull free, and that alone was 
enough to drive Keric to action.  Drawing upon the last lingering vestige of his strength, 
he hurled the both of them forward, into the light.
* * * * *
Chapter 9
Keric tapped on the solitary door at the far end of the long corridor that ran down the 
length of the third floor of Tallwarden Hall.
“Come in.”
Professor Padronis was standing behind his desk, in the midst of what looked like a 
sea of chaos.  Books, bags, parchments, and dozens if not hundreds of pieces of 
assorted miscellanea covered every flat surface in the room.  Padronis was selecting 
items and putting them into a box that was balanced precariously on the edge of his 
chair; a half-dozen similar boxes were already stacked near the door.  They blocked the 
door from opening more than a bit, but Keric was able to slide through.
The senior mage looked up as Keric entered the room.  “Ah, good, Keric, I was 
hoping to talk to you before the movers arrived.”  He gestured with a hand toward the 
mess.  “As you can see, I’m a bit behind.  Hand me that mortar and pestle, will you?  On 
the shelf behind the door.”
As Keric handed it over, he said, “Congratulations on your promotion, sir.”
Padronis hesitated with the ceramic bowl in his hands.  “Yes, well, I think we can all 
understand why Dean Corinther chose to retire now.  I cannot blame him.”
Keric fidgeted a bit as Padronis carefully lowered the mortar and pestle into the box, 
then picked up the lid, fastened it, and shifted the box to the floor.  There were more 
empty boxes behind the desk, but Keric couldn’t see how all of the contents of the office 
would possibly fit into even twice their number.  “Sir, I wanted to speak to you about my 
request.  I thought maybe you could intercede with—”
Padronis interrupted him with a raised hand.  He gestured for Keric to close the 
door.  When he had, the older mage sighed and said, “Keric, the team sent into the 
Labyrinth included senior mages from both the University faculty and the Mage Council. 
Do you think you’ll find something they could not?”
“No, it’s not that.  It’s just that… I needed to…”
“I know that it is difficult to gain closure in circumstances like this,” Padronis said.  “In 
any case, even if I wanted to intervene, the matter has been closed.  The Council has 
decreed that the annual Labyrinth competition is to be ended; they have taken custody 
of the crystal and are planning on securing it in their vaults.  I wouldn’t be surprised if 
they ended up finding a use for it again at some point, but it is no longer a University 
concern.”
“No longer a University concern,” Keric repeated, the words tinged with more than a 
hint of bitterness.
“We attend to our own,” Padronis said softly.  “I didn’t see you at the services 
yesterday.”
“I’m sorry.  I… I guess I just wasn’t quite ready to move on.”
The other mage nodded.  “Mages Hael and Sarhus will be missed; it is our task now 
to ensure that they will not be forgotten.  Have you spoken to Marthek Jarol?”
“Not since he returned to Sirrath, to his family’s estate there.  I got the impression, 
however, that he was not planning on returning to the University.”
“Yes.  A shame, that.  We can do so much with our magic, but we cannot give the 
boy back his arm.”  He settled his gaze on Keric.  “The attack cost us three promising 
young mages.  It is my sincere hope that it does not claim a fourth.”
Keric nodded.  “Is there any more information about the blood mage?  I heard a 
rumor that he was connected somehow to the Sokhali, and that the Empire—”
“A mage should not barter in rumors,” Padronis said, again cutting him off.  “You 
should know, better than most, of the danger that can exist in careless words.”  He 
deliberately softened his expression.  “The matter is being dealt with.  I urge you to 
leave it at that.”  He bent down and picked up a fresh box from the pile, placed it on his 
chair.  “Let us speak of more positive topics.  I understand that you wish to study under 
me next term.”
“If you are still taking students,” Keric said.
“Oh, I do not intend to let my new assignment isolate me from teaching entirely,” 
Padronis said.  “Although I would have thought that you would have preferred to remain 
with a master within your own discipline for your advanced work.  Trying to become the 
first archmage in two hundred years?”
“Scroll magic is definitely enough of a challenge for me,” Keric replied.  “But magical 
theory is universal.  And… well, I think that the schools can be a bit too insular, 
sometimes.  Maybe if we learned to work together better…”
“A wise sentiment,” Padronis said.  He looked around at the remaining clutter and 
threw up his hands.  “Ah, this isn’t going to get done any time soon.  Come on, buy me 
a cup of tea, and tell me what brilliant discoveries you intend to make next term.”
* * *
It was well past last bell when Keric returned to the Quadrangle, alone.  The 
University was never truly asleep, but at that late hour, closer to dawn than to the 
preceding sunset, the large open square was deserted, and only a few of the windows 
in the surrounding buildings were aglow with the light of spelled lamps.
Keric walked slowly to the Viewing Pool.  The bleachers and platform that had been 
used during the final running of the Labyrinth competition were gone, dismantled and 
returned to storage, but there were still subtle signs of what had happened.  It was hard 
to see in the darkness, but patches of sod had been removed and replaced.  Keric had 
heard that the spots where the blood mage’s dark magic had touched had been utterly 
tainted; they’d even had to dig up and replace the dirt underneath the grass.
They’d left the fountain.  There had been talk of tearing it down as well, but 
ultimately the governing council had elected to leave it.  It now sat quiet and empty of 
water.  Keric stopped before it, and stared down at the blank stone.  There was no 
remnant of the blood mage, of course, but Keric shuddered as he thought of the man, 
and what he had done here.  He had not been there during the battle, of course, but 
he’d spoken to a number of people who had witnessed the exchange, and its grim 
finale.  When he and Marthek had reappeared next to the fountain, in all of the 
confusion, he’d never gotten a chance to look into the pool, to look at the body of the 
man who had tried to kill him.  Who had succeeded in killing two of them, and crippling a 
third.
He stood there staring for a long time.  Then, stirring as though waking from a 
dream, he reached into his tunic and drew out a scroll.
He unrolled the crisp new parchment, carefully spreading it on the flat stone lip of the 
fountain.  It was too dark to read, but he had prepared for that in his working, and as he 
anchored the corners of the scroll with small pebbles he traced his fingers over the 
writing, whispering a minor incantation.  The runes flared slightly and came alive with a 
gentle light.
He started to read.  The words flowed from his lips in the same way that they had 
flowed from his pen onto the parchment.  Magic was never easy, even for a skilled 
mage, but somehow this time the words had rushed out, as if they had been penned up 
inside him, eager and waiting to get out.  He swayed slightly and felt a slight dizziness 
as he read, but he completed the spell.  All focus magic, whether scroll or gem or 
amulet or blade, drew somewhat on the personal power of the mage, but Keric had 
delved deeper with this working.  His tutors likely would have frowned upon this 
expenditure and the risks involved, but it was something he had felt he had to do.  To 
purge the demons he had brought with him out of the Labyrinth, perhaps.
The disorientation passed as he finished his casting.  The runes inscribed on the 
scroll flared in sequence and disappeared, and the other words below them, several 
lines of text that extended to the bottom of the scroll, likewise faded.  That writing was 
mundane, not magic, but those words too had power.  For him, if not for anyone else.
He carefully removed the pebbles and lifted the scroll.  It was too dark to clearly read 
the writing that was now deeply incised into the stone, but Keric knew them by heart. 
The inscriptions perfectly matched the words he had written on the bottom of the scroll.
ASHANDRA HAEL AND TRAVE SARHUS 
THEY GAVE THEIR LIVES SO THAT OTHERS WOULD LIVE
WE WILL NEVER FORGET
Rolling up the empty scroll and tucking it back into his pocket, the young mage 
turned and departed, leaving the Quadrangle quiet and empty again in his wake.
THE END
