
Prologue
The Imperial City of Rome
December 21st, 47 CE
The cloaked woman pressed two dozen denarii into the guard’s sweaty palm and slipped into the 
shadows. One by one, her torch lit upon cells holding imprisoned men awaiting trial, or more 
likely, death. The stench of desperation and all things foul assailed her nostrils and she covered 
her nose with the side of her hood.
Maddened wails echoed across the cold stone walls, falling on deaf ears. Condemned souls 
pled for freedom. Others begged for an end to their misery. These wretched creatures would find 
no such relief from her; Helena’s mission tonight had but one purpose. She sought a man who 
should by all accounts be dead—his blood spilt and swept away along with the fetid sand of the 
arena.
Instead, Lucius Sempronius Asper lay unconscious in the farthest and darkest chamber, 
sprawled over a crude mat on the floor. Alive, she noted. But just barely. She glanced into the 
blackness behind her before snapping her fingers once over the iron lock. The mechanism inside 
turned over at her will and she lifted the latch. With some effort, she pushed open the door to the 
cell, sending several rats darting from their refuge.
Firelight danced over Asper’s prone form as Helena slid the torch into a wall sconce. The 
gladiator was impressive up close, maybe even more so than when she had witnessed him at the 
Circus Maximus this afternoon. Stripped of his armor and weapons as punishment for an escape 
attempt the night prior, he’d managed to defeat multiple opponents tasked to finish him off. All 
spectators in attendance for the city’s Saturnalia festivities were thrilled by his ferocity as he 
fought for his life. And won.
Humiliated twice over by his slave, his master sent him to this frigid prison to rot.
Once warm and bronzed, the hard planes of his face were now ashen gray. The deep brown 
color of fresh medjool dates, his shoulder-length hair was damp from fever. Gashes from a recent 
flogging marred the finely honed muscles of his back. His ripped tunic was soaked with blood 
and clung to a well-defined rear and thighs. Despite his current state, he still remained quite the 
sight to behold.
He did not stir as she approached. Focusing her energy, she closed her eyes and used her 
powers to determine what life he had left within him. In her mind’s eye she saw him standing on 
a towering cliff of ice, teetering on the edge. She shook the bleak image from her head—he did 
not have long. Without her intervention, he would make his journey to the Elysian Fields tonight.
But she wouldn’t allow it. Not when she needed his strength, his skill in dealing death. The 
vision she’d seen in the waters of her scrying bowl under the glow of tonight’s moon showed her 
yet another witch with the potential to become more powerful than herself. Helena couldn’t 
ignore it. She had to act.
She had survived too long, sacrificed too much of herself to ensure her talent surpassed all 
others. If another’s gift exceeded hers, she would become the hunted. They would try to seek her 
out just as she had done to countless others—unless she found them first. She would not break 
the vow she made to never again become the prey.
Thus far, Helena had succeeded in dispatching all the threats revealed to her on Winter 
Solstices falling on full moon nights. But the murder and magical draining of a fellow witch—a 
sister in all but blood—was the darkest of enchantments, and her body had become frail over the 
years. Though her innate gift had increased when she absorbed the energy of each rival, her 
physical strength had been severely exhausted. The gradual weakening of her body was a cruel 
tax imposed for using her abilities for such malevolence. Necessary malevolence, of course, but 
it took its toll nonetheless.
Bribing her way into Rome’s festering underbelly in order to revive and rescue this dying 
slave was her last and only chance at survival. And like with anything else she wanted, she’d 
take it.
“Do you agree to my terms, slave?”
Lucius stared at the sable-haired stranger through bleary eyes. He was sitting upon flat, 
chilled rock, but the visible moon in the night sky told him he was no longer in his cell. When he 
turned his head to the side, soaring columns came into focus. Somehow, this woman had brought 
him to Agrippa’s Pantheon. Or had he stumbled here himself? He had flashes of recollection, but 
nothing was clear. After a moment, foggy memories started to return.
Yes, his legs did carry him here, with her at his side. Opening locks without touching them 
and… 
The woman slapped him feebly and asked again. “Do you agree to my terms?” Out of breath 
and barely able to hold herself upright, she used the stone column for support.
The thought struck that his back no longer pained him. Leaning forward, he reached his 
hand around to touch the wounds from his beating, but felt only slightly raised welts where his 
flesh had been scourged not long ago. 
“What is this?” he demanded.
“A second chance. That is, if you’re willing to work off the debt you now owe me.”
“Debt?” He stood, feeling stronger than he had in hours. “What debt do I owe you, woman?”
She laughed, a shrill and empty sound. “You owe me but your life, slave. And should you 
wish to keep it, you will honor your debt.”
“I have no time for this foolishness.” Looking around the immediate area, he was certain the 
guards would be close by—ready to shackle him once again and throw him back into that cage. 
But he saw none. Just a few late-night revelers wandered the streets, merrily shouting ‘Io 
Saturnalia!’ to anyone they passed.
The woman wrapped skeletal fingers around his wrist. “You will make time, Lucius 
Sempronius Asper.”
At once, his heart felt as if it were covered in rime. He clutched his chest and fell to his 
knees. If his heart was encrusted with frost, his back was surely on fire. Searing pain spread 
across his shoulders and spine as the lash marks reopened. Fresh blood trickled down his side 
when he fell to the ground. His head nearly burst as her cackle rang in his ears, though her mouth 
did not move.
She bent down to meet his eyes. “This will be your fate if you disobey me. I brought you 
from the edge of death, and I can take you back to it. I will keep you alive in this state of torment 
until the end of time, slave. You will know no reprieve. And if you slip into madness, I will 
restore your sanity so you may know every second of the agony.” Her green eyes flashed and the 
freezing grip around his heart tightened. “What I want from you is simple. There are those who 
must die so I may live. You will kill them for me.”
The woman released him and the pain ceased. With a deep inhale, Lucius sat upright, 
wincing at the peculiar feeling of his skin knitting back together.
“A sorceress,” he spat between breaths. “You will be burned for this.”
Amused by his assertion, she quirked her lip. “And who will listen to you? You are a slave. 
A fugitive.”
He considered her words. And quickly decided she was right. If he took her to the Vigiles, 
they would think him a fool. Gods, he hardly believed this himself. And after the watchmen had 
a good laugh, they would promptly send him back to prison—or execute him on the spot—if he 
was lucky.
Standing, he shook his head. “Why do you require my assistance? Can you not do this 
yourself?”
“They must be killed using more…primitive means.”
Lucius’ gaze fell to the floor. “They must be killed by one’s hand, not magic.” It was a 
statement, not a question. He seemed to have gone from one master to another. Again to be used 
as a weapon. A nameless, faceless, wielder of death. Once for amusement, and now as an 
assassin for a witch.
“I will ask once more. Do you agree to my terms?”
He glared at the woman. This woman who held his life in her bony hands, threatened him 
with eternal suffering if he did not do her bidding. With a snarl, he reached for her neck, but 
before he could make contact a flare of emerald light arced in his direction, throwing him against 
a column and down the front steps of the temple. As she approached him slowly, the pain 
returned, more quickly and severely than before.
“You cannot injure me, slave. Just as my magic will prevent you from inflicting harm upon 
yourself. As much as it disagrees with you, you are bound to me. And I will have your answer.” 
She raised her arm, his pain intensifying as she curled her fingers into a gnarled fist. “Now.”
She stood above him as he writhed under her torture. His body contorted in spasms and he 
bled from his nose and ears, the warm fluid coating his face. “Y—,” he sputtered and coughed up 
more blood.
“I can’t hear you, slave.”
“Yes! Yes, I agree.”
“Very well.” Her invisible attack ended and Lucius drew in long, stabilizing breaths. “Now 
your work begins.”
Chapter One
New Orleans, Louisiana
February 17th, 2015 CE
Bethany Hayes chewed on her lower lip. Looking from mirror to mirror in the cramped dressing 
room, she took in her appearance from different angles.
“I don’t know, Aunt Mae. This one is just so…red.” She sucked in her stomach. And snug, 
she added silently.
“Well? Come on out, darlin’, and let’s see it.”
She let out a defeated groan and slid the curtain open. Her aunt’s eyes widened over her 
gossip magazine.
“No good?” Beth asked, frowning.
“Bless your heart, child. Did you even look at yourself in it?” Aunt Mae tossed aside her 
reading material.
“Ugh, yes. I’ll try a different one.” She reached to pull the curtain shut but Mae rushed 
forward from her chair and swatted her hand away.
“Turn around, sugar.” Her aunt stood at her back as Beth faced the mirror. The 1950’s red 
velvet dress had a square neckline and a ruched waist flaring into a full pleated skirt with tulle 
underlay. “See how well it accentuates your shape?” She gestured to her niece’s hourglass figure, 
making a dramatic silhouette with her hands. “Darlin’, you’re beautiful.”
Beth sighed then worried her lip.
“And you’re wearing this dress. No arguments,” she declared with a decisive nod. The bell 
hanging from the front door of her vintage clothing store, Mae’s Closet, jangled and one of her 
regulars sauntered in. “Mornin’, Mrs. Wallace!” Aunt Mae called from the back of the shop. 
“I’ve got that purse you had placed on hold right behind the counter.”
As she hurried to attend to her customer, Beth closed the dressing stall with another sigh. 
She pushed the blonde side-swept bangs of her textured pixie cut aside and chanced another look 
at herself in the dress. Soft and luxurious, the material hugged and highlighted her curves. 
Swishing the skirt from side to side, she allowed herself a little smile as it hit playfully just 
below her knees. She had to admit she felt pretty great in it. This was nothing like the simple, 
understated outfits she usually wore. Her conservative parents would not approve. But it really 
would be perfect for her good friend Nikki’s annual Mardi Gras costume party tonight.
“What are you worried about, girl?” she mumbled as she reached back to undo the zipper. 
Shimmying out of the dress, Beth grudgingly admitted she knew exactly what was making her 
anxious. And it wasn’t the disapproval of her mother and father. That, she had more or less made 
peace with.
It had been four years since the last time she went to Nikki’s for Mardi Gras, but what had 
happened on the ride home was as fresh in her mind as ever. Having recently turned twenty-one, 
she did have a bit to drink that night. One rum and coke. That was it. She had sipped it the first 
hour she was there and had plenty to eat during the party. When the police had given her a 
Breathalyzer test she barely blew a .02, proving she was well within the legal limit for driving.
She slipped the dress back on its hanger and hung it on the hook before getting back into her 
own clothes. As she pulled her sweater over her head, the ragged pink scar along her shoulder 
blade caught her eye in the mirror. Aside from the broken ankle, the laceration on her back was 
the worst injury she had sustained from the rollover crash. Caused by bent metal protruding 
through the collapsed roof, the gash was several inches long and required almost two dozen 
stitches. She had other minor cuts and bruises, but the trauma with the most lasting impression 
couldn’t be seen.
Some people black out when they’re in an accident but Beth remembered everything, right 
down to the song on the radio, “Seven Nation Army” by The White Stripes. And the part she 
knew she’d never forget was the sudden blaze of strange green light in the darkness.
Not to mention the man standing behind it.
His eyes were empty as he watched the force of the blast veer her car from the road, sending 
it spinning into an embankment. When the car finally settled, the rock song’s iconic riff 
thundered in her ears and tires spun in the air. Upside down and struggling with the seatbelt 
latch, Beth saw him approach. Her breathing became ragged as her lungs filled with the cloud 
of fine powder expelled when the airbag deployed.
After the belt unlatched, she fell hard onto something sharp and scrambled upright. Over 
shattered safety glass and thick Louisiana mud, she crawled through the open window the best 
she could with an injured ankle. At this point she didn’t even feel any pain. He was getting closer 
and every instinct she had screamed for her to get away from him as fast as possible. That she 
could worry about her injuries later.
She didn’t make it very far before the initial shock wore off and her body refused to go on. 
The man had followed and stood before her as she collapsed in the dirt along the edge of the 
road. His face was grim with resignation. 
Surprising herself, she started to shout at him. Not from fear, but out of rage. Too angry to 
be frightened, she demanded to know why he did this and who—or what—he was. Her heated 
tirade seemed to catch him slightly off guard and a frown line creased his brows. He quickly 
schooled his expression into that of apathy and reached for her.
With a defiant scream, Beth lunged forward, and for a split second the strangest feeling 
washed over her body. Almost like blood rushing back into an appendage that had fallen asleep. 
Immediately following the brief pins-and-needles sensation, the same green flash that had 
flipped her car from the road surged from her fingertips and hit the man square in the chest. He 
stumbled backward and her jaw dropped. Examining her hand, she wondered what in the hell 
had just happened. When he recovered, she spied the hint of a smile on his lips. He took another 
two steps forward, stopped, and scrutinized her for a moment. Coming to some internal decision, 
the man closed his eyes and let out a deep sigh.
And as abruptly as he entered her life, he left it, walking away from her into the pitch black 
stretch of highway. Shortly after, she finally passed out.
Beth shook her head and buttoned up her jeans. Devout Southern Baptists, her parents didn’t 
believe her tale of an otherworldly ability. They were convinced the accident was her own fault
—a consequence of drinking and partying with her no-good friends. Any mention of “magic” 
was not to be uttered in their presence.
She had been crushed by their emphatic denial and the wedge between them grew when her 
gift continued to manifest itself in incredible but unreliable ways. Perhaps with the occasional bit 
of telekinesis, or clairvoyance, but it unfortunately came and went without warning. Beth had yet 
to master it and was lost without any support. Her parents were more comfortable when she 
stayed quiet about her so-called abnormality, and at times there was an undercurrent of 
intolerance and hostility directed her way. She’d eventually given up on waiting for them to 
change how they felt about her newfound talents and left home to live with her Aunt Mae.
The bell on the shop’s front door sounded again and her aunt wished Mrs. Wallace a great 
day.
Aunt Mae was nothing like her brother, and for that Beth was beyond grateful. Mae Hayes 
had always been the black sheep of their lower middle class family. An odd bird who never quite 
fit in with their traditional southern ways. Somewhat of an outcast herself, Beth had always 
gotten along with Mae like a house on fire. And to her relief and more than a little surprise, her 
aunt was considerably open-minded when it came to her explanation of what had happened that 
night and what had occurred since.
She found the no-questions-asked kind of love she never had back at home during the 
several years she lived with her aunt and worked in her quirky resale shop. Aunt Mae even 
encouraged her to turn her love of jewelry making into a profitable side business. A hobby her 
parents had told her on more than one occasion was a waste of time. As it turned out, there was 
quite a demand in Uptown New Orleans for Beth’s funky, upcycled designs sold in Mae’s 
Closet. Utilizing unwanted or broken costume jewelry sold or donated to the store, she made fun 
new pieces. A clip-on earring without a match might become a statement ring, or a brooch 
missing its pin may be turned into a trendy necklace. Locals and tourists alike were fans of her 
work, and she never would have attempted it if it weren’t for her aunt.
Mae also did the best she could to help her learn to control and focus her magic. Of course it 
didn’t come with an instruction manual, but her aunt was a great cheerleader. Sometimes just 
having a loved one at your back to tell you not to give up made all the difference. But despite the 
fact she had to make it up as she went, she had gotten much better than when she’d first 
discovered her talents. She found she could do amazing things with just a mental command or 
flick of her wrist. It was a work in progress, but they were both proud of the strides she’d made.
But lately, even with her aunt’s support, she was having a hard time managing. Her magic 
was getting stronger. Like it was simmering inside her and close to boiling over. And going back 
to the place where it had all started wasn’t helping her nerves. She’d avoided not only the lonely 
road leading to Nikki’s place, but had seen very little of her friends since the accident. It was a 
self-imposed exile; her parents had succeeded in making her believe her choices had brought 
upon the chaos. Aunt Mae told her for years it wasn’t her fault, and her words had only recently 
started to sink in. When Nikki came in a week ago with her yearly attempt to invite Beth back to 
her Fat Tuesday party, she’d finally relented.
She walked from the back of the shop, dress in hand. While all these factors added to the 
stress of going to Nikki’s party, the biggest source of her anxiety was him. The authorities had 
never located him and of course she hadn’t seen him since that night. Not in person anyway. No, 
the man standing in the middle of the highway remained in her thoughts no matter how hard she 
tried to put him from her mind. There was something about the defeat written on his face when 
he’d walked up to her, like he didn’t want to be doing what he was doing.
Ridiculous, she murmured. He’d tried to kill her. She just didn’t know why he decided not to 
follow through with it. Or why he had attempted it in the first place.
Heading to the front counter, she rubbed her temple. Her power was increasing; she could 
feel it in every fiber of her being. What she needed was to learn how to direct it. She needed to 
know how to tell it what to do. Because right now, it did just about whatever it damn well 
pleased.
“Sugar, are you all right?” Aunt Mae asked, startling her.
When Beth flinched, hat boxes piled on a high shelf tumbled from their perch near the 
ceiling.
“Oh! Aunt Mae, I’m sorry!” She draped the dress over a chair and began to clean up the 
mess.
“Hush, now,” she soothed. “You know you can’t help it.”
Beth pushed the hair from her eyes and did her best not to cry. “It’s getting worse. And the 
dreams are happening every night now.”
Sitting next to her on the floor, Mae tucked her niece’s short hair behind her ears. “The 
dreams of him?”
She nodded. “The same one every time. I’m sitting on one end of an old stone bridge, and 
he’s walking away from me to the other side. I still don’t know what to make of it. But in the 
dream, I want to follow him. I want to know what’s on the other side of the bridge.”
Mae gave her a soft smile. “Darlin’, I know a little somethin’ about wanting to know what 
else is out there, what’s beyond the life you know. Me and your daddy grew up in the same 
house, believe in the same God, and still go to the same church. But we couldn’t be more 
different. He felt right as rain keeping everything as he’d always known it, never trying anything 
new or seeing things a different way. But I was never like that. I wanted new experiences, to 
meet new people and see what they had to say about things. So I left that tiny town in the middle 
of nowhere and I’m all the better for it.” She patted Beth’s hand. “And you did the same thing. 
That takes some kinda strength, darlin’. Which is why I know you’ll get this gift of yours under 
control.”
Beth gave a humorless laugh. “Is it really such a gift? I’ve been wondering if I should’ve 
listened to Mom and Dad. Maybe I should just forget everything that happened and try to hide 
what I can do.”
“You will do no such thing!” Her aunt gave her a gentle push on the shoulder. “You 
remember that professor I dated years ago? He told me once about this quote by Benjamin 
Franklin. ‘Hide not your talents, they for use were made. What's a sundial in the shade?’ And it 
stuck with me.”
Beth smiled and let out a gusty breath.
“That’s better. You know your smile just lights your face right up.” Aunt Mae helped her 
with the rest of the boxes. “Huh.” She paused and looked up as if in deep thought. “Now that I 
think about it, it may have been the tennis instructor I went out with for a time who told me that 
quote. Doesn’t matter though. You get my gist. Right, sugar?”
“Yes, Aunt Mae. I get it,” Beth said with a laugh.
Chapter Two
Lucius stepped from the path of the vase before it crashed into the door to Helena’s suite in the 
Ritz-Carlton on Canal Street.
“Four years, Asper! It’s been four years since I saw the vision of her in my scrying bowl! 
And what have you to show for it? Nothing!”
Avoiding the broken crystal and scattered lilies, he clasped his hands at his back and strode 
into the living area. “Your vision showed a glimpse of a blonde girl wearing beads at a Mardi 
Gras party. That’s not very much to go on, Helena.”
She scoffed. “Well it narrowed her down to one city, did it not?”
“I scoured New Orleans for months after the Winter Solstice in 2010. I conducted daily 
searches all throughout January and February 2011. If she was in this city during the 
celebrations, I would have found her. She could have been at a Mardi Gras party in any city.”
Helena slumped onto the suite’s plush couch. “I’ve grown tired of that excuse, Asper. It’s 
had you gallivanting all over the States wasting our time for years. She’s here. She’s always been 
here—I can feel it.” She covered her eyes with the back of her arm, her hair cascading over the 
pillow in dark waves. “I should have accompanied you the first time you went. Maybe then we 
could’ve moved on from this nonsense instead of dragging it out for as long as you have.”
He walked to the window and observed the activity below. A cheerful brass band and 
thumping drums led a parade of costumed performers down the street. Mardi Gras participants in 
the traditional colors of green, purple, and yellow threw trinkets to the excited crowd from atop 
garish floats. He wondered if she was down there right now… Bethany. His Bethany. At least 
that’s how he’d come to think of her these past years.
After countless centuries acting as Helena’s attack dog, Lucius thought he’d forgotten how 
to feel. Thought he’d lost the capacity to empathize. When your hand is forced again and again 
to murder the innocent, putting aside the part of yourself that cares is a necessary defense 
mechanism. But Bethany…she brought him back from the void. She had such a fight in her, such 
spirit. In that moment in the empty highway, she had awakened something in him he was sure 
had died a long time ago. He now had a purpose.
To do whatever he could to make sure Helena never found her.
The dark witch didn’t make it easy; if she had he would’ve escaped her grip back when 
Rome was still in power. He’d tried on numerous occasions to take his own life, but her magic 
protected him from every attempt. No matter the distance between them, her power would slow 
down an intentional fall, or even divert a galloping horse if he jumped in its path.
As long as they were bound, Lucius was immortal. Helena did not age—a gift bestowed to 
her in antiquity by a water nymph who had taken pity upon the witch. Helena had been assaulted 
by a man who came upon her when she was washing clothes in a river. The naiad, known as 
Larunde, found her violated and beaten nearly to death. The nymph had also experienced the 
pain and humiliation of rape, and brought her back from certain death. With the nymph’s act of 
kindness, she was granted everlasting life. She maintained the appearance of a woman in her 
early forties, and Lucius had appeared to be twenty-eight since the day she took him from his 
cell.
And if he simply declined to do as she commanded? She held over his head the threat not 
only of his own torment, but she promised to torture the witches they hunted as well. Helena had 
in her employ men who would take great enjoyment in “using” her victims before they died. At 
least, at one time they were men. They had become so corrupted by the use of dark magic they 
were barely human. She’d forced Lucius to watch their depravity when he refused to comply 
with her demands at some point during the Dark Ages. It made him ill to think about it even 
now. The fact she allowed it, having been through the very same horror was a testament to her 
heartlessness.
And because her spell protected against it, he couldn’t harm her or hire another to do so. The 
woman had thought of everything.
All he could do was provide the witches some dignity in death. To ensure it was quick, and 
make sure they didn’t experience the terror and pain Helena would have waiting for them.
But his decision not to bring Bethany to her complicated matters. He had managed to 
distract Helena for a time by taking on some lucrative contracts in magic’s dark underworld. 
Organized crime was as rampant with witches and mages as it was with regular people, and 
Lucius had a reputation as both a great tracker and an efficient killer. While he took no pleasure 
in it, at least these people were anything but innocent. They were deeply embroiled in everything 
from human trafficking to human sacrifice. His master was happy with the money coming in, 
and for a while, she forgot about the witch that got away. He knew he couldn’t stall forever, and 
now she insisted they both go to New Orleans and he look for her again.
“She’s getting stronger,” Helena said through gritted teeth. “You will find her, Asper. You’ll 
find her and bring her to me so I can perform the ritual. If you don’t, I’ll find someone who will. 
Trust me when I say they won’t be nearly as kind as you choose to be.” She took a steadying 
breath and raised her hand. At her gesture, the front door to her suite swung open with a bang. 
She nodded in its direction. “Now get out. I don’t want to see you again until you have the girl.”
Lucius exited the room and the door slammed shut behind him. He needed to find Bethany. 
Tonight. And he had an idea of just where she’d be.
Gripping the steering wheel until her knuckles turned white, Beth made her way through the 
winding roads of New Orleans’ Lakeshore suburb. The upscale neighborhood sat nestled along 
the southern edge of Lake Pontchartrain where the per capita income was more than double the 
Louisiana average. It was nothing like the tired, rural town next to Bayou Barataria where Beth 
grew up.
She and Nikki had met as Brownies at an area Girl Scout meeting, and when you’re that 
young, you don’t worry so much about have and have not. They remained close friends all 
through junior and senior high school despite being in different districts and still kept in touch 
after graduation. It had been tough being away from Nikki, but a part of her felt she deserved the 
punishment. Fortunately Aunt Mae was able to talk some sense into her.
Beth held her breath as she drove past the stretch of road where she’d crashed her beat-up 
Ford Taurus and let out a sigh of relief when it was in her rear-view. She had no intention of 
reliving the experience—seeing him nightly in her dreams was more than enough. She also had 
no intention of sharing with Aunt Mae the extent of him she actually saw in the dreams. The 
bridge dream was one thing, but there were other, more explicit visions that came to her when 
she was awake.
She often saw him in his bed with white sheets twisted around his nude body in stark 
contrast to his bronzed skin. His deep brown hair just barely touched his broad shoulders, and 
when he turned onto his stomach, she saw thick crisscrossing scars all over his back. She sensed 
him as he lay there awake for hours, his pale blue eyes staring at nothing in particular. Beth 
couldn’t read any specific thoughts, but somehow she knew when he came to her in these 
visions, it was because he was thinking about her. Thoughts of her kept him up at night, and she 
felt from him the combined sensations of guilt, longing, and profound sorrow.
For the life of her, she didn’t know what any of it actually meant, other than the distinct 
impression his actions that night weren’t what he’d truly wanted. What she did know, however, 
was thoughts of him had been keeping her up nights as well.
She pulled into the residential cul-de-sac and found a space along the street. Cars were 
parked bumper to bumper on both sides, and she heard music and laughter from Nikki’s parents’ 
house as soon as she opened the car door. She grabbed her borrowed clutch from the passenger 
seat and smoothed out her skirt before heading inside.
Nikki’s parents lived in what was easily considered a mansion, but the two story Greek 
Revival facade they had added to the front made their late 90’s house look like an elegant 
Antebellum plantation home. She trailed her fingers over one of the columns as she traversed the 
porch to the open front door. When she was barely two steps into the foyer, Nikki’s excited 
squeal rang over the noise inside.
“Bethie! I’m so happy you made it!” Nikki weaved through the crowd of costumed 
partygoers to reach her.
“Hi, Nikki!” Beth shouted over the din and rushed to hug her friend. They stepped back after 
their embrace to take in each other’s outfits. Nikki was classic Lady Gaga in a bobbed wig, 
geisha-style lipstick, and a futuristic metallic peplum dress.
“Nikki, you look fantastic! And tall,” she added, looking down at her sky-high platform 
heels. “Are you freaking crazy? Those are out of control!”
“I know!” Nikki wobbled and grabbed Beth’s shoulder for support. “I can hardly stand in 
them, but they’re fab, right? A couple more sips of my hurricane and I’ll change into some flats. 
But I’m working them for now aren’t I?”
Beth laughed. “Hell yes, you are!”
“But look at you…Miss Marilyn Monroe, you are looking divine tonight.”
Beth fluffed her curled blonde hair and leaned forward with her best Marilyn impression, 
tilting her head back with a sultry laugh.
“Yes!” Nikki exclaimed, cracking up. “Amazing.” She took Beth’s hands and gave them a 
squeeze. “You look good—like really good. I’m so glad you made it, Bethie. I really missed 
you.”
“I missed you too. Look, I’m sorry I dropped off the face of the earth. I just needed some 
time to get my head straight.”
Nikki nodded. “I know, I know. Listen, just forget it. You’re here now. That’s what 
matters.”
Swallowing past the lump in her throat, she smiled. “Thank you for understanding.”
“All right, all right. Enough of that.” Nikki waved her hands in dismissal. “How about a 
drink?”
“Oh. Just a water I think.”
“Fair enough.” She led her to the makeshift bar to grab a bottle of Evian. “Here ya go, 
sweetie.”
“Thank ya, darlin’.”
Beth steadied Nikki as she nearly lost her balance again.
“Whoops!” Her friend giggled and flailed her arms. “I think it may be time to de-Gaga my 
feet.”
Laughing, Beth agreed. “I think you might be right.”
“Will you be okay on your own for a while?”
“Yeah, I’ll be fine. Go on.” Shooing her off, Beth put on Marilyn’s breathy purr. “Don’t you 
worry about me. I’ll be busy mingling with all these lovely people. We’ll have a grand old time.”
“Good, I want you to have a good time. Don’t think too hard on anything and just have fun, 
all right?”
“You got it, sister.”
Nikki gave a firm nod. “Well all right then. I’ll see you a bit later.” With intense 
concentration to the task at hand, she pivoted and stepped away slowly in the massive heels.
Lucius stalked around the far perimeter of the home near the lake. The sprawling residence was 
filled to the brim with party guests in costumes, just as it had been the night he scouted it four 
years ago. Bethany was in there, of that he was certain. He felt the familiar pull to be near her 
that often struck on those nights when sleep eluded him. When thoughts of her flooded his mind 
like a torrent and made him wish he had a different life. Not the hundreds upon hundreds of lives 
he had lived at the mercy of a cruel master, but just one life, this time lived for himself.
But he knew better than to dream about the impossible. He had committed too many sins in 
his many lifetimes to be looked upon with any favor by the gods.
What he could do, here and now, was warn Bethany. Tell her to get as far away from 
Helena’s reach as possible. Explain she had to go to a place where he’d never be able to track her 
down. Even that couldn’t guarantee her safety, but it was the only option.
Now he just had to find a way to make her listen.
A lakeside breeze gusted and he glared in the direction of his quarry. When the air settled, 
he moved toward the vast backyard, the locks of his windblown hair partially obscuring his face 
and his mouth set in a firm line. He had with him a dose of Helena’s nightshade potion, a potent 
mix of herbs and enchantments used to subdue the witches without force. Lucius had demanded 
she provide him with a painless method to bring in her victims. Ingesting a few teaspoons would 
render the witches unconscious for several hours, enough so they didn’t experience their magical 
draining and inevitable demise. A couple of drops would knock Bethany out long enough for him 
to take her somewhere quiet and relay his warning.
That was the easy part. Getting her to trust the man who had nearly killed her was another 
matter altogether.
Chapter Three
Laughing, Beth clapped her hands to the music as the guests who entered themselves into the 
night’s costume party showed off their moves in a Soul Train-style dance line. Nikki’s 
gregarious father had a microphone and announced the contestants with note cards as they 
shaked and shimmied by.
Nikki’s family did not mess around when it came to Mardi Gras.
After finishing her water she wiped a bead of sweat from her hairline. The entire first floor 
was packed with dancers and spectators shouting for their favorite costumes. Sandwiched 
between a giant M&M and someone in an inflatable sumo wrestler getup, she started to feel 
somewhat claustrophobic.
“Excuse me,” she said and made her way through the crowd to get some air.
Once out back, she took a deep breath of the refreshing winter chill. It usually hovered 
around the mid to high fifties in February, but to a N’awlins girl that was downright brisk. Beth 
shivered and rubbed her upper arms, but wasn’t ready to head inside just yet.
Illuminated by randomly scattered tiki torches, the backyard stretched a ways toward Lake 
Pontchartrain. Situated a good distance from the house, a wooden pergola wrapped in white 
Christmas lights caught her attention and she looked over her shoulder to the commotion inside 
before walking to the cushioned patio set under the lights.
She sat in one of the chairs and bent down to take off her shoes, finally letting out a great 
sigh when she undid the strappy sandals. Rubbing her foot with one hand and holding the high 
heels in the other, she paused at the sound of movement by the other end of the structure.
“Is someone there?” She craned her head to see past the thick wooden beam.
A booted foot came into view, followed by a long leg in dark denim jeans. A muscular torso 
in a collarless leather jacket drew her eyes up to the man’s face.
“You!” Her shoes slipped from her grasp as she stood.
The man who had attacked her—the one she couldn’t stop thinking about—was back to 
finish her off. She stared him down as he approached and put his hands up in an apparent gesture 
of peace.
“I’m not going to harm you, Bethany,” he assured her. “I’m here to help you.”
“Like hell you are.”
The corner of his mouth briefly curved into a smile.
“You can trust me. I know you have no reason to. But you have to believe—”
Beth had focused her power and blasted him with a wallop of her energy before he could 
finish his lie. The green flash lit up the area around them as he was thrown into the corner of the 
pergola. The framework trembled and the Christmas lights flickered. She concentrated, readying 
herself for another shot.
He groaned as he sat up. “I see you’ve been practicing.”
“Damn right I have.” She whipped her head from him to the house. Everyone was inside and 
preoccupied with the costume contest, too far away to hear if she called for help. “Don’t move,” 
she warned.
“Bethany, listen to me. We don’t have much time.” He stood up slowly. “When I come back 
empty-handed she’ll send her dark mages after you. You can’t stay here.”
“Who will send what after me?” She shook her head quickly. “I need you to shut up. Okay, 
psycho? Can you do that for me?”
“Beth, please.” The man took a step toward her.
She shot him again, this time at his feet. It knocked him off balance but he caught himself on 
the back of a patio chair before he fell.
“I can do this all night, creep. Or maybe I should stop holding back. I’ve taught myself a lot 
since you tried to kill me.”
“Lucius.” He straightened and started toward her again. “My name is Lucius.”
“I don’t care what your name is, and back off!” She directed every ounce of mental strength 
to blast Lucius once more with her magic, not knowing the extent of damage he’d suffer. It was 
her or him, and she wasn’t going to pull any punches.
With a growl, he jumped forward, right into the path of the electric arcs flying at him. Her 
magic didn’t strike him, instead it bounced violently from a protective green field around him 
just like her car had before it rolled from the highway. Beth ducked just in time and it missed 
hitting her by less than a second before it faded into the darkness.
“I’m bound to Helena with her magic, Bethany. I have been for some time. Since I put 
myself in front of your blast intentionally, it couldn’t touch me. That’s how your car went from 
the road that night.”
Beth stood on shaky legs. “Who the hell is Helena?”
“She’s the reason I came after you. I never wanted to hurt you. I never wanted to hurt 
anyone, you have to understand that. Helena is a very strong witch, maybe the strongest one of 
you left since she drained so many others of their magic. Please, we have to hurry. Come with 
me now and I’ll explain everything.”
“Witch?” She never said it out loud about herself, never openly associated her gift with that 
word. Not even to Aunt Mae. But having it come from him somehow made sense, felt right, even 
if she wasn’t ready to hear it. “No,” she said, shaking her head, “I’m not going anywhere with 
you.”
Lucius tracked Bethany’s eyes as they darted from him to the perceived safety of the house. She 
was going to run.
He couldn’t let her escape—he needed to slip away with her quietly. They’d already pushed 
their luck with her impressive flashes of magic arcs. No one had seen, but if she kept it up she’d 
be sure to draw someone’s attention. He covertly pulled the vial of nightshade from his back 
pocket, his other hand held up in an effort to calm her down.
She met his eyes. Bethany showed no fear, just determination and anger. He admired her for 
it all the more.
In an instant, she turned and made a run for it. Lucius caught up with her in a few long 
strides and wrapped his arm around her from the back, pinning her arms against her chest. She 
screamed and fought and kicked, but none of the people in the distant house paid any mind. He 
thumbed the cork from the small potion bottle and brought it to her mouth.
Her short hair brushed against his face and the velvet dress she wore was impossibly soft 
under his fingers. If he had another life, he’d pull her lush curves against his body and never let 
her go. But even if she didn’t despise him, it could never be. He had to make sure she was as far 
from Helena as possible. And in turn, far away from him. He lowered his eyes in defeat and 
tipped the nightshade against her lips.
“No!” she shouted, and the vial flew from his hand.
Bethany had the gift of telekinesis.
Helena was the only other witch he had ever come across with the talent, and it took a lot 
out of her; she rarely used it as it required so much magical energy. Momentarily caught off 
guard, he didn’t notice as Bethany’s teeth came down hard on his fingers. He pulled his bloodied 
hand away with a curse and she used the opportunity to push him off.
Beth’s bare feet pounded over the cool grass. She didn’t dare look back—she was almost to the 
house.
She opened her mouth to shout for help when the disco beat blaring from inside suddenly 
stopped. The people inside no longer danced, no longer whooped and hollered at the costumes. 
Instead, they seemed frozen in place. Some were mid-clap, others with a drink unmoving against 
their lips. Beth stopped in front of the French sliding glass doors and gazed in awe, her pursuer 
forgotten.
“It’s too bad you’ll never learn to do that.”
A woman with dark, flowing hair sneered when Beth turned to the direction of her voice.
“It really is a fun trick,” the woman continued.
Farther back, Lucius was on the ground struggling against the unseen hold of four tall, gaunt 
men standing over him in black robes. Were they the dark mages he spoke of?
“Helena,” Beth rasped.
“The one and only! And I am so glad to finally meet you. I had a hunch my Lucius here had 
been lying to me about you so I asked a few friends to follow him.” Helena shook her head. 
“We’ll talk about this later, Asper. But you should be aware I’m severely disappointed.”
“What do you want from me, Helena?” Beth demanded.
“To be honest, my dear, I’d be happy just to have you dead. Draining your magic would be 
preferable, but seeing as Lucius is temporarily out of service, you’ll have to die by some good 
old-fashioned dark magic.”
Helena brought her emaciated hands up and Beth recognized the look of concentration that 
would precede the flash of green light. Instinct took over and Beth produced her own magic to 
deflect the emerald orb barreling toward her.
Blinking twice, Helena was taken aback by her defense. She scowled, bared her teeth, and 
redoubled her efforts. Beth parried every shot and threw as much of her own magic she could 
toward her attacker. She was inexperienced compared to the older witch, and her aim left much 
to be desired, but Beth made up for it with grit and fortitude. And the promise to herself she 
wouldn’t stop until Helena was down for the count.
The night turned as bright as day with their vibrant clashes. They leaned forward and dug 
the balls of their feet into the ground as their power pushed them away from one another.
One of the dark mages moved to assist Helena, and she screamed at him, not ceasing her 
barrage against Beth. “No, you fool! It will take the power of all four of you to keep Asper 
down!”
Beth took advantage of the distraction, using her telekinesis to fling a large planter at the 
woman’s head. Luckily, her magic once again did as she asked. Helena moved her arm in a wide 
half-circle, creating a bright shield to block it. Terracotta shards exploded in every direction as 
the pot made contact. Both women covered their heads to protect themselves from the shrapnel, 
but a heavy piece struck Beth in her knee and she cried out before collapsing to the ground.
An invisible weight forced Beth flat on her back and held her arms at her sides. She thrashed 
back and forth to no avail as Helena used her more practiced telekinetic power to restrain her.
“My, my.” Helena breathed heavily through clenched teeth. “You are a strong one, aren’t 
you? Such a shame. I’d love to see what I could do with your power.”
Another weight began to crush Beth’s throat.
“But I’d rather see you dead!”
She gasped for breath but none came, and an enraged roar sounded from where the dark 
mages held Lucius down. From the corner of her eye, she saw him break free from their 
enchantment and sweep a leg across the grass, dropping two of the mages to the ground. When 
she spied the flash of the blade he pulled from his jacket, a renewed sense of hope washed over 
her.
Summoning every stich of power within, she projected the mental image of her own fingers 
around Helena’s neck. The older witch’s eyes widened and her face turned red. As she grasped at 
her throat, the heavy, choking grip on Beth lessened. She stood and drew in a shallow breath. 
Then another. Helena released her and she did the same, before they both diverted all of their 
power into one final attack.
They heaved their magic at each other one last time, Beth’s green flashes and arcs taking on 
a new bluish glow as she called upon every bit of her preternatural strength. When the bright 
spheres of pure energy crashed together, a pulse reverberated in the air above them. The force of 
the pulsation hit Helena hard and she staggered back.
Helena began to cough and wheeze, a look of abject terror falling over her face. Her skin 
turned gray, then dark purple. Her magic was failing. Beth backed away as she clawed at her 
sunken cheeks in desperation. Instead of blood, the scratches turned to ash until her head and 
neck collapsed in on itself.
Lucius took out the last dark mage, and like the others, he turned to dust. He pulled his dagger 
from the crumbling corpse and ran to Beth. As Helena disintegrated before her, a strange warmth 
filled his chest for the briefest moment. With her death, he was free. And he had Beth to thank 
for it.
He approached her tentatively. She stared in shock as the last of his former master fell to her 
feet like soot in a fireplace. The music from the house started up again without warning and the 
people inside carried on, oblivious to what had just happened. Beth didn’t even jump.
“Holy shit.”
“Yeah.” Lucius nodded with an amused smile. “Are you all right?”
Mouth agape, she looked up at him. “Uh, no. Not particularly.” Beth swayed a little and he 
caught her.
“Shh, you’re safe now.” 
He hesitated, then fanned his hand over her back. To his amazement, she relaxed in his 
arms. He traced his finger over the long, pink scar on her shoulder blade, not unlike the scars he 
bore on his own back. Lucius hated that she had it because of him. If she let him, he’d spend the 
rest of his mortal life making up for the pain he’d caused her.
“I’m still mad at you,” she mumbled, weary from the battle she’d just won.
Lucius laughed quietly. “I figured as much.” He pulled back and cradled her face in his 
hand, wiping a tear from her cheek with the other. “And I wouldn’t have it any other way.”
Epilogue
Five Months Later
Washington, DC
Beth tapped her foot impatiently while she waited for Lucius to call back that the coast was clear. 
The unused Metro tunnel was pitch black, save for the soft blue-green glow radiating from her 
hands. A slow dripping of water sounded somewhere behind her and the smell of mechanical 
grime persisted along the tracks.
Lucius hated that she wanted to do this, but all she had to do was remind him he owed her. 
When she saw the news reports of the sickening attacks on women in the DC area, it sounded a 
lot like what he had told her of dark mages. She’d insisted on going to see if it was true and if so, 
she wanted to do whatever she could to stop them. With the help of Lucius’ training, her magic 
had grown stronger by the day and she felt she had to do something. She needed to utilize her 
gift for something good.
The two of them had tracked the dark mages to an abandoned underground passageway they 
believed they were using as a nest. The plan was to ambush them while they rested and Lucius 
was not happy she demanded to go with him.
She smiled.
If someone would have told her a few years ago she’d be trudging through a tunnel with a 
former gladiator hunting dark magic users, she would have told them they needed to get their 
head checked. Yet here she was. And while the setting lacked ambience, the company wasn’t 
half bad.
Slowly but surely, and most likely against her better judgement, Beth had warmed to Lucius 
since Mardi Gras. On top of that, she couldn’t help but notice how his eyes lingered on her when 
he thought she wasn’t looking. And she found she didn’t mind looking at him, either. But 
thoughts of their relationship and where it might go had to wait.
There were dark mages to slay.
Beth and Lucius will return in Infernal Embrace
Available August 2017
Read on for an excerpt of
Infernal Embrace
Book One of the Crescent City Arcana Series
by Rachel Chanticleer
Excerpt from Infernal Embrace, available August 2017
It was just after eleven when Beth took the dog out to the courtyard behind the townhouse where 
she now lived. The man watched her from a distance, waiting for the right moment to carry out 
his plan. Her short hair was almost golden under the decorative outdoor lamps lining the 
walkway and the belted dress hugging her hourglass figure fluttered in the slight breeze. The 
apples of her cheeks had a rosy tinge from time spent in the sun, a warm contrast to her 
otherwise fair skin. She closed her eyes and tilted her head up, evidently enjoying the brief 
respite from the oppressive Louisiana heat. This was the perfect time—she was relaxed, 
unprepared. He’d strike now.
He rolled a small leather pouch around in his hand. The bag was filled with yagé leaves, 
typically boiled after being freshly picked by Amazonian shamans to brew a hallucinogenic tea. 
But this Spirit Vine, or ayahuasca, was prepared neither as it is traditionally in Peru, nor as given 
to groups of adventurous celebrities and the bored elite of New York and Los Angeles willing to 
vomit for hours in exchange for a potentially life-altering trip. The leaves crunching within the 
leather in his palm had been dried and purified by a local brujo and sealed in the bag with a 
binding charm. But not before a few strands of Beth’s and his own hair were tucked inside. He 
needed to get her alone. Just the two of them.
With his lips pressed to the pouch, he whispered an ancient verse, and then lit it with a silver 
flip-top lighter. As he held it away from his body, the bag burned cobalt blue, then the fire 
changed to a bright purple. The flames neared his fingertips and he scowled. In the back room of 
the botánica shop he’d been warned not to release the yagé a moment too soon or both he and 
Beth could become trapped in el Velo Entre los Mundos. 
The Veil Between the Worlds. A place for neither the living nor the dead. Somewhere Beth 
would have no choice but to use her magic.
The fire had darkened to a deep plum and the searing heat now toyed with his thumb and 
index finger, but he didn’t dare drop it. At last the space surrounding her began to fade away, 
black and empty at the edges like a photo taken with a pinhole camera. Beth must have seen the 
margins of reality falling into shadows as well; she took several steps back and looked around 
frantically. Before the courtyard vanished completely, she found him in the darkness and met his 
eyes.
ABOUT THE AUTHOR
Rachel Chanticleer is a writer who sees beauty in darkness, and can find a love story where you'd 
least expect it. Her stories often feature worlds where the paranormal hides just out of view—
until it's time to turn the lives of her characters upside down. She lives in a former steel town 
along the East Coast's revitalized Rust Belt.
Connect with Rachel here:
facebook.com/WriterRachelChanticleer
twitter.com/RaeChanticleer
rachelchanticleer.com
Sign up to receive 
news and updates via email at:
Rae’s Reading Room
