
Book #1 in the Mesmer Trilogy by Isabella Amaris is out now!
Mesmer (Book 1: Sanctuary)
(A Three Towers Fantasy)
A hidden kingdom in a forbidden forest. A realm she can’t escape without the 
trust of a mage. But trust and magic make complicated allies – when time is 
running out.
When Lea escapes ruthless pursuers within the shadows of a dark forest, she 
unwittingly stumbles upon an enchanted kingdom. But Verlaine is not the 
sanctuary it appears to be. And when its magi sovereign refuses to let her leave, 
her encounters with strange sorcery and malicious fey become the least of Lea's 
problems. Soon, Lea must find a way to outwit Gabriel Amarinth’s web of 
enchantment without betraying who – and what – she really is; and before a 
traitor can destroy all she’s fought to protect in her beloved home kingdom of 
Lorien.
Book Excerpt
Chapter 1
Lea’s lids fluttered open. Silence hung heavy about her. She was faintly aware of 
being afraid, but she couldn’t remember why. It took her a minute to register that 
it was barely dawn, and that she was in a forest with tall trees of deep emerald 
and a cold, sharp wind. It had stopped raining, but not for too long. Her clothes 
were still damp on cool skin.
Light crept across the forest floor and shone through the treetops, 
glittering in between the overhead canopy of leaves like diamonds in a bed of 
emerald velvet. The thought felt fanciful, unlike her… Had she bled out? This 
sense of nothingness must be the touch of death... 
It was the rough gleam of something rippling gently in the distance that 
distracted her. A little lake lay perhaps ten feet away, glancing up at her with a 
pretty, beckoning glitter. Like an old key fitted in a rusty lock, the world jolted 
into place. Bright brown eyes widened. The sharp winds faded into insignificance. 
She’d escaped.
Lea’s lips curved into a shaky smile.
Something occurred to her then. The wolves … they didn’t get me.
Her breath caught. Memories rushed back with shocking suddenness. She 
remembered now why she was afraid and hastily attempted to rise, only to wince 
at the stab of pain that hit her stomach. She fell back down with a thud. Her back 
pressed hard against tree bark, and the dark stain colouring the side of her tunic 
turned ominously darker. Her heart pounded heavily in her chest. It was so cold. 
Soundlessly, Lea let the tears fall.
As though they had been a signal eagerly awaited by the forest, a great 
shivering breath of air raced through the woods. Winds cut cruelly at the small 
figure curled up at the base of her large, gnarled tree. The tree’s dense, green 
canopy provided scant cover from the harsh winds, caressing Lea’s bruised skin 
with fingers as sharp as daggers, chilling her to a remarkable sensation beyond 
numbness. Her tears dried on her cheeks. She began to tremble.
A howl cut through the silence. The sound was high and lingering, 
ominously beautiful as it travelled straight through the air to Lea’s position. 
Hastily, she grasped the crudely fashioned dagger that she’d let fall to the ground 
just by her, then stilled. Her eyes narrowed on the foliage before her. In her 
mind’s eye, she could imagine the glint of intelligent, feral eyes gleaming under 
the gloom of the pale sunlight; shadowed soft grey fur and snapping jaws; a 
growling wolf pack nipping at her heels as her dagger swung desperately –
“Damn it,” Lea whispered, and tensed. Her eyes darted back and forth. 
How much time had passed since she’d fallen? The brightening sunlight took on 
the aspect of a sly trick played by the fates. Oh, to die where none would know – 
Snap.
Every muscle in Lea’s body locked in place. A moment passed, then two.
Snap!
Her world narrowed in on that small, crackling sound of a twig crunched 
underfoot. For a strange moment, it felt like the forest stilled with her.  Lea 
dragged in a small, unsteady breath – no wolf was that careless.
 Get   Mesmer (Book #1: Sanctuary)   now to continue reading! 
Back to Top
About the Author:
When she isn't writing high fantasy or YA romantic fantasy, Isabella Amaris is 
often found busily penning poetry and short stories with elements of fantasy, 
romance and mystery/suspense. 
No matter how busy she is, this author will always love to hear from her readers. 
Do drop her a line at belleamaris at gmail dot com, or pop by her website at 
http://isabellaamaris.com.   She   blogs   on   fairy   tales   and   fantasy   at 
http://isabellaamaris.blogspot.com.
Discover other titles by Isabella Amaris at Smashwords
Short Stories (individual stories/collections):
The Shoplifter Never After
The wits of a therapist are pitched against the guile of a client hiding the truth 
behind her thefts of random odd objects, in a psychological thriller with an 
unexpected twist.
Dreamer
A sequel to 'The Shoplifter Never After'. When the world refuses to accept who 
you are, but the universe you dream up to replace it becomes more real to you 
than it should be, what do you do? Perhaps only a certain, rotund therapist can 
find an answer to that burning question...
Junction
Would you betray your most sacred ideals to protect what’s yours? A yuppie 
racing to work in her dented little second-hand car discovers the answer to this 
question when she is faced with an unusual sight, at the Junction ...
The Devil’s Advocate 
When a certain devilish minion starts whispering sweet, fatal nothings into a 
weary ear, there seems to be only one bloody way out of the mess that Penny’s life 
has become.
And the Devil’s Advocate is absolutely convinced he’ll make her take it ...
Poetry:
As The Moon And The Sun: Poems Of Love, Faith And Dreaming 
In The Madness Of Meeting: More Poems Of Love, Faith And Dreaming 
Just Imagine: An Anthology Of Poems On Love, Faith And Dreaming 
Connect with Me Online:
http://isabellaamaris.com/
http://isabellaamaris.blogspot.com/
Back to Top
